=== Quality Manual Crawl Results ===

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/coming-soon.aspx
Header: Coming soon
Intro: This page contains a record of the University's incoming Quality Manual policies (and amendments to current policies). Its content is primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Coming soon - The University of NottinghamComing soon
This page contains a record of the University's incoming Quality Manual policies (and amendments to current policies). Its content is primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.There are no approved, future updates to the Quality Manual at this time.  Ongoing projects and reviews may lead to changes for the 2025/2026 academic year and information will be published here when confirmed.
Amendments to the Quality Manual for the 2024/25 academic session can be found on the following page:
Recent Changes
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 January 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/contingency-classification-and-progression-regulations.aspx
Header: Contingency classification and progression regulations
Intro: This page contains the University's contingency regulations. Its content applies to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Contingency classification and progression regulations - The University of NottinghamContingency classification and progression regulations
This page contains the University's contingency regulations. Its content applies to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.The purpose of these contingency regulations is to mitigate against risk to student classification and progression where University business has been significantly disrupted. These regulations will be utilised when authorised by Senate.
Progression - Undergraduate (UG)
1.  Where Assessments and/or marking have taken place during a period when Assessments and/or marking have been disrupted (for example, global pandemic, industrial action, power outage during exam), University of Nottingham (UoN) will operate classification and progression regulations that differ from the normal regulations but deliver the same learning outcomes.
2.  In order to apply the regulations described here:
a.  The Head of School (or nominee) must satisfy themselves that students meet (or will be able to meet if they progress) all of the programme level learning outcomes and meet with the approval of any relevant PSRB. If those conditions cannot be met by a student, then that student may not progress until the Actual Marks are received.
b.  Students must Submit all their Assessments even if a disruption is expected (for example, during a marking boycott).  This includes re-assessments for a failure in compensatable module(s) where the complete marks transcript is not available to determine whether or not compensation can take place. This is in the student's best interest because if the module is not compensated then they might not proceed or progress to the next Stage.
3.  A student’s choosing to not Submit an Assessment will result in the award of a mark of zero for that Assessment.
4.  A student will be allowed to undertake a mixture of assessment and reassessment in the same exam period if they so wish (for example, to best enable them to progress without delay into the next Stage).
Application of the Contingency Regulations
5.  Normally, UoN operates an approach to progression that uses a weighted average of Actual Marks from Completed Modules. When not all Assessment and/or marking is complete by the nominated Exam Board Cutoff date, UoN will instead make use of a mixture of Actual Marks from Completed Modules, Part For Whole Marks calculated from Incomplete Modules where possible, and Derived Marks based on past performance. All other parts of the progression model will remain the same (e.g. borderline regulations will not be changed).
6.  Mark decisions are considered at student level, so within the same Assessment or module, it is possible that one student has an Actual Mark, another a Part for Whole Mark, and another has a Derived Mark.
7.  UoN will proceed as follows, if by the Exam Board Cutoff date:
a.  All Assessments for a module have an Actual Mark (i.e. a Completed Module), UoN will use the Actual Marks for Assessments for that module.
b.  A student has Actual marks for Assessments that are worth at least 40% of the module, then UoN will designate the weighted average of those marks as the Part For Whole Mark for that module. This includes Partially Marked Assessments (subject as always to Clause 2).
c.  A student has Actual Marks for Assessments that are worth less than 40% of the module, or there are no Actual Marks for Assessments for that module (subject as always to Clause 2), then using Actual Marks provided prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date, UoN will provide the student with a Derived Mark for each Assessment that does not have an Actual Mark or Part For Whole Mark. The selection of marks to use and the formula used are explained in ‘UG: How to calculate a Derived Mark’.
8. For avoidance of doubt, an Actual Mark  not received in time for the Derivation Cutoff (and so not used to calculate the Derived Mark) but then received prior to the Exam Board Cutoff, will be used as an Actual Mark at the Exam Board (even though that Actual Mark was not used to calculate the Derived Mark); in such circumstances the Derived Mark would not be recalculated.
9. Part For Whole Marks and Derived Marks can appear on a transcript as module marks. For avoidance of doubt, it will not show on the transcript that these are Part For Whole Marks or Derived Marks. This information may be able to be provided in supplementary documentation where essential.
Students with Extenuating Circumstances
10.  This section relates to students who have outstanding Assessments due to upheld Extenuating Circumstances (for example, where they have been granted a first sit for an exam).
11.  In line with Clause 7, Actual Marks, Part for Whole Marks and Derived Marks may be utilized to determine the module marks.
12.  In line with Clause 7, if by the Exam Board Cutoff date a student has Actual marks for Assessments that are worth at least 40% of the module, then UoN will designate the weighted average of those marks as the Part For Whole Mark for that module. This includes Partially Marked Assessments (subject as always to Clause 2).  At this point this could include the zero mark for the Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment.  However, the zero mark for the Extenuating Circumstances affected Assessment can be excluded in the part for whole calculation by the Exam Board if the non-Extenuating Circumstances affected Assessments with Actual Marks are worth at least 40% of the module.
13.  In line with Clause 7, if there are Actual Marks for Assessments that are worth less than 40% of the module, or there are no Actual Marks for Assessments for that module (subject as always to Clause 2), then using Actual Marks provided prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date, UoN will provide the student with a Derived mark for each Assessment that does not have an Actual Mark or Part For Whole Mark. The Derived Mark can be applied to the student record for Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments after they have Submitted the outstanding Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment.
However, it should be noted that if a student has outstanding Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments because of upheld Extenuating Circumstances at the Derivation Cutoff Date, the mark for those Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments will be recorded as a zero.  This zero will be used for the purpose of calculating the Derived Mark. This means that any resulting Derived Mark will be negatively impacted (lowered) and this is the Derived Mark that would be used for all Assessments without Actual Marks or Part For Whole Marks (whether or not an Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment).  It is not possible to recalculate a Derived Mark at a later date (such as after the Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment is Submitted).  Students in this position should take this information into consideration when making decisions whether or not to accept the application of the Contingency Regulations or whether to obtain Actual Marks (see below).
Progression Decisions
14.  If a student is unable to progress because of the application of the Contingency Regulations (for example due to a Part For Whole Mark or Derived Mark), Regulation 20 will be extended to allow students to proceed carrying a total of 40 credits of reassessments.
15.  For students with outstanding Assessments because of upheld Extenuating Circumstances, which will be recorded as zeroes on their record pending Submitting the Assessment,  where the Part For Whole Mark (if it includes zeros from Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments) and/or Derived mark is not representative of normal performance, then the School may take this into account (for Zero Affected Modules) in making progression decisions under Regulations 10, 11 and 20. These considerations must be determined on a module basis, not elements of Assessment. This must be minuted at the Exam Board.
Decision period
16.  If any module mark is designated as a Part For Whole Mark or Derived Mark, then, subject to Clause 2, and provided the student satisfies the progression regulations given those marks, then the student may progress to the next Stage depending on their decision. All such students will automatically be offered a choice, supported with supplementary communications to explain in further detail, whether to accept or reject those marks and the progression decision generated by the application of these Contingency Regulations:
The student must choose either to:
a.  accept the progression decision and the associated marks. Note, any unmarked Submitted Assessments will not subsequently be marked and/or there will be no Equivalent Sit opportunities. This will be considered the default position (see below).
OR
b.  reject the progression decision and associated marks.  In this case the student will obtain Actual Marks as follows:
i.  if there was an original Submitted Assessment and it is not yet marked, they must wait for that Assessment to be marked
and/or
ii.  if there was no original Assessment, or the original Submitted Assessment will never be marked (for example, due to irreparable damage to or loss of a script), the student may be offered an Equivalent Sit opportunity(s).
The student will be required to make this decision when they receive a provisional progression decision. There will be a decision period of time for the student to consider their choice and seek advice. The deadline for the decision will be communicated to students in advance of the decision period so that they can prepare accordingly. If the student does not respond by the deadline, it will be assumed that the progression decision and associated marks are accepted.
17.  If any module mark is designated as a Part For Whole Mark or Derived Mark, and if a student does not satisfy the progression regulations given those marks, then, subject to Clause 2, the progression decision and associated marks will automatically be rejected and the student will wait for Actual Marks or Equivalent Sit opportunity (see above).
18.  If a student chooses to reject the progression decision and associated marks and to obtain Actual Marks, then:
a.  The decision would affect all the student’s marks.   It is not possible to retain Part For Whole Marks or Derived Marks on some modules and wait for Actual Marks/Equivalent Sit opportunities for other modules.
b.  The Actual Mark the student receives for their original assessment / Equivalent Sit will be used in place of Part For Whole Marks and Derived Marks. This means that their marks could go down or up, which could impact the progression decision.
c.  UoN are not able to guarantee when a student will receive their Actual Marks and resulting progression decision. This may mean they are not able to return at the start of the next academic year and it may be necessary for the student to interrupt for a year.
d.  UoN will do everything reasonably possible to ensure Assessments are marked promptly.  Where this period is extended, then from time to time (for example, when some more Actual Marks are available) students may be offered another decision period in case they decide to change their mind.  In this case, any non-response would be assumed to mean the original decision had not changed (i.e. they continue to reject the application of the Contingency Regulations).
15.  Where students are waiting for Actual Marks, Schools will prioritise these Assessments for marking.  This is a complex issue and will be decided at the time, as appropriate to the situation. It is expected that usually this prioritisation would start with Assessments for students who are due to graduate in the next graduation period.   Additionally, the timing of marking will be dependent on when markers with the relevant expertise are available for marking.
16.  Where students are on an exchange from another UoN campus, then Part For Whole Marks and/or Derived Marks can be calculated using marks from the other campus(s) as appropriate.  Where students are on an exchange from another University, if there are insufficient marks on which to base calculations, then Schools need to submit an exceptional case to QSC.
Classification - Undergraduate (UG)
1.  Where Assessments and/or marking have taken place during a period when Assessments and/or marking have been disrupted (for example, global pandemic, industrial action, power outage during exam), University of Nottingham (UoN) will operate classification and progression regulations that differ from the normal regulations but deliver the same learning outcomes.
In order to apply the regulations described here:
a.  the Head of School (or nominee) must satisfy themselves that students meet all of the programme level learning outcomes and meet with the approval of any relevant PSRB. If those conditions cannot be met by a student, then that student may not be classified until the Actual Marks are received.
b.  Students must Submit all their Assessments even if a disruption is expected (for example, during a marking boycott).  This includes reassessments for failure in compensatable module(s) where the complete marks transcript is not available to determine whether or not compensation can take place. This is in the student's best interest because if the module is not compensated then they may delay or prevent completion.
2.  A student’s choosing to not Submit an Assessment will result in the award of a mark of zero for that Assessment.
3.  A student will be allowed to undertake a mixture of assessment and reassessment in the same exam period if they so wish (for example, to best enable them to graduate without delay).
Application of the Contingency Regulations
4.  Normally, UoN operates an approach to classification that uses a weighted average of Actual Marks from Completed Modules. When not all Assessment and/or marking is complete by the nominated Exam Board Cutoff date, UoN will instead make use of a mixture of Actual Marks from Completed Modules, Part for Whole Marks calculated from Incomplete  Modules where possible, and Derived Marks based on past performance. All other parts of the classification model will remain the same (e.g. borderline regulations will not be changed).
5.  Mark decisions are considered at student level, so within the same Assessment or module, it is possible that one student has an Actual Mark, another a Part for Whole Mark, and another has a Derived Mark.
6.  UoN will proceed as follows, if by the Exam Board Cutoff Date:
a.  All Assessments  for a module have an Actual Mark (i.e. a Completed Module) , UoN will use the Actual Marks for Assessments for that module.
b.  A student has Actual Marks for Assessments that are worth at least 40% of the module, then UoN will designate the weighted average of those marks as the Part For Whole Mark for that module. This includes Partially Marked Assessments (subject as always to Clause 2).
c.  A student has Actual Marks for Assessments that are worth less than 40% of the module, or there are no Actual Marks for Assessments for that module (subject as always to Clause 2), then using Actual Marks provided prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date, UoN will provide the student with a Derived mark for each Assessment that does not have an Actual Mark or Part For Whole Mark.   The selection of marks to use and the formula used are explained in ‘Undergraduate: How to calculate a Derived Mark’.
7.  For avoidance of doubt, an Actual Mark not received in time for the Derivation Cutoff date (and so not used to calculate the Derived Mark) but then received prior to the Exam Board Cutoff, will be used as an Actual Mark at the Exam Board (even though that Actual Mark was not used to calculate the Derived Mark); in such circumstances the Derived Mark would not be recalculated.
8.  Part For Whole Marks and Derived Marks can appear on a transcript as module marks. For avoidance of doubt, it will not show on the transcript that these are Part For Whole Marks or Derived Marks. This information may be able to be provided in supplementary documentation where essential.
Students with Extenuating Circumstances.
9.  This section relates to students who have outstanding Assessments due to upheld Extenuating Circumstances (for example, where they have been granted a first sit for an exam).
10.  In line with Clause 7, Actual Marks, Part for Whole Marks and Derived Marks may be utilized to determine the module marks.
11.  In line with Clause 7, if by the Exam Board Cutoff Date a student has Actual Marks for Assessments that are worth at least 40% of the module, then UoN will designate the weighted average of those marks as the Part For Whole Mark for that module. This includes Partially Marked Assessments (subject as always to Clause 2).  At this point this could include the zero mark for the Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment.  However, the zero mark for the Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment can be excluded in the part for whole calculation by the Exam Board if the non-Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments with Actual Marks are worth at least 40% of the module.
12.  In line with Clause 7, if there are Actual Marks for Assessments that are worth less than 40% of the module, or there are no Actual Marks for Assessments for that module (subject as always to Clause 2), then using Actual Marks provided prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date, UoN will provide the student with a Derived mark for each Assessment that does not have an Actual Mark or Part For Whole Mark. The Derived Mark can be applied to the student record for Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments after they have Submitted the outstanding Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment. However, it should be noted that if a student has outstanding Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments because of upheld Extenuating Circumstances at the Derivation Cutoff Date, the mark for those Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments will be recorded as a zero.  This zero will be used for the purpose of calculating the Derived Mark. This means that any resulting Derived Mark will be negatively impacted (lowered) and this is the Derived Mark that would be used for all Assessments without Actual Marks or Part For Whole Marks (whether or not an Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment).  It is not possible to recalculate a Derived Mark at a later date (such as after the Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment is Submitted).  Students in this position should take this information into consideration when making decisions whether or not to accept the application of the Contingency Regulations or whether to obtain Actual Marks (see below).
Discounting marks:
13.  If the Part for Whole Mark or Derived Mark is lower than average for the Stage, the School may discount up to 20 credits (on a module basis, not by elements of Assessment) of these Part For Whole Marks or Derived Marks for the classification decision.  This must be minuted in the Exam Board.  This provision is separate from, and additional to, any application of Regulation 26b. For avoidance of doubt, where such a Part for Whole Mark may have been included in the Derived Mark calculations, the Derived Mark would not be recalculated.
14.  For students with outstanding Assessments because of upheld Extenuating Circumstances, which will be recorded as zero’s on their record pending Submitting the Assessment, where the Part For Whole Mark (if it includes zeros from Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments) and/or Derived Mark is lower than average for the Stage, then the School may discount up to 40 credits of Zero Affected Modules  for the classification decision. These credits for discounting must be determined on a module basis, not elements of Assessment. This must be minuted at the Exam Board. This provision  would include any application of Regulation 26b (For example, a School could discount 20 credits under 26b plus 20 credits under this clause; or 0 credits under 26b plus up to 40 credits under this clause).
Decision period
15.  If any module mark is designated as a Part For Whole Mark or a Derived Mark, then, subject to Clause 2, the student will automatically be offered a choice, supported with supplementary communications to explain in further detail, whether to accept or reject a classification generated by the application of these Contingency Regulations.
The student must choose either to:
a.  accept the classification and the associated marks.  Note, any unmarked Submitted Assessments will not subsequently be marked and/or there will be no Equivalent Sit opportunities.  This will be considered the default position (see below).
OR
b.  reject the classification and the associated marks.  In this case the student will obtain Actual Marks as follows:
i.  if there was an original Submitted Assessment and it is not yet marked, they must wait for that Assessment to be marked
and/or
ii.  if there was no original Assessment, or the original Submitted Assessment will never be marked (for example, due to irreparable damage to or loss of a script), the student may be offered an Equivalent Sit opportunity(s)
The student will be required to make this decision when  they receive a provisional classification. There will be a decision period of time for the student to consider their choice and seek advice. The deadline for the decision will be communicated to students in advance of the decision period so that they can prepare accordingly. If the student does not respond by the deadline, it will be assumed that the classification and associated marks are accepted.
17.  If a student chooses to reject the provisional classification and associated marks and to obtain Actual Marks , then:
a.  The decision would affect all the student’s marks.  It is not possible to retain Part For Whole Marks or Derived Marks  on some modules and wait for Actual Marks/Equivalent Sit opportunities for other modules.
b.  The Actual Mark the student receives for their original Assessment / Equivalent Sit will be used in place of Part For Whole Marks and Derived marks. This means that their marks could go down or up, as could their classification.
c.  UoN are not able to guarantee when a student will receive their Actual Marks and resulting classification. It is likely that their graduation will be delayed.
UoN will do everything reasonably possible to ensure Assessments are marked promptly.  Where this period is extended, then from time to time (for example, when some more Actual Marks are available) students may be offered another Decision Period in case they decide to change their mind.  In this case, any non-response would be assumed to mean the original decision had not changed (i.e. they continue to reject the application of the Contingency Regulations).
18.  Where students are waiting for Actual  Marks, Schools will prioritise these Assessments for marking.  This is a complex issue and will be decided at the time, as appropriate to the situation. It is expected that usually this prioritisation would start with Assessments for students who are due to graduate in the next graduation period.   Additionally, the timing of marking will be dependent on when markers with the relevant expertise are available for marking.
Progression - Foundation and Qualifying Year
1.  Where Assessments and/or marking have taken place during a time period during which Assessments and/or marking have been disrupted (for example, global pandemic, industrial action, power outage during exam) UoN will operate classification and progression regulations that differ from the normal regulations but deliver the same learning outcomes.
2.  In order to apply the regulations described here:
a.  The Head of School (or nominee) must satisfy themselves that students meet (or will be able to meet if they progress) all of the programme level learning outcomes and meet with the approval of any relevant PSRB. If those conditions cannot be met by a student, then that student may not progress until the Actual Marks are received.
b.  Students must Submit all their Assessments even if a disruption is expected (for example, during a marking boycott).  This includes re-assessments for failure in compensatable module(s) where the complete marks transcript is not available to determine whether or not compensation can take place. This is in the student's best interest because if the module is not compensated then they may delay or prevent progression or completion.
3.  A student’s choosing to not Submit an Assessment will result in the award of a mark of zero for the Assessment.
4.  A student will be allowed to undertake a mixture of assessment and reassessment in the same exam period if they wish to (for example, to best enable them to progress without delay).
Application of the Contingency Regulations
5.  Normally, UoN operates an approach to progression that uses a weighted average of Actual Marks from Completed Modules. When not all Assessment and/or marking is complete by the nominated Exam Board Cutoff date, UoN will instead make use of a mixture of Actual Marks from Completed Modules, Part For Whole Marks calculated from Incomplete Modules where possible, and Derived Marks based on past performance. All other parts of the progression model will remain the same (e.g. borderline regulations will not be changed).
6.  Mark decisions are considered at student level, so within the same Assessment or module, it is possible that one student has an Actual Mark, another a Part for Whole Mark, and another has a Derived Mark.
7.  UoN will proceed as follows, if by the Exam Board Cutoff date:
a.  All Assessments for a module have an Actual Mark (i.e. a Completed Module), UoN will use the Actual Marks for Assessments for that module.
b.  A student has Actual Marks for Assessments that are worth at least 40% of the module, then UoN will designate the weighted average of those marks as the Part For Whole Mark for that module. This includes Partially Marked Assessments (subject as always to Clause 2).
c.  A student has Actual Marks  for Assessments that are worth less than 40% of the module, or no Actual Marks for Assessments for a module, then subject to Clause 2 and provided the student has completed at least 60 credits of modules in that Stage and has satisfactorily completed all of the required progression modules, then using Actual Marks provided prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date, UoN will provide the student with a Derived Mark for each Assessment that does not have an Actual Mark or a Part For Whole Mark. The selection of marks to use and the formula used are explained in 'Undergraduate: How to calculate a Derived Mark’.
d.  If the student has not completed at least 60 credit of modules in that Stage or has not completed all of the required progression modules (as per the relevant programme specification), then UoN cannot offer a Derived mark as there is not a sufficient body of past performance from which to draw. In these cases, Schools are recommended to consider the following options (none, some or all of these options may be utilised as the School deems appropriate on a case by case basis, minuted at the Exam Board):
i.  It may be possible for the student to proceed (see below).
ii.  If the student has extensive ECs and outstanding learning outcomes will be covered in the subsequent Stages, the School may exercise discretion to disregard up to 40 credits in order to allow them to progress.
iii.  Schools may assess students with Incomplete Modules through a viva voce to determine whether they demonstrate the necessary learning outcomes and can progress.  Students who do not demonstrate those learning outcomes, would be offered a re-assessment in line with the usual methodology.
iv.  UoN may be able to offer a later Derivation Cutoff Date for Foundation and Qualifying Year students after full year assessments are complete in order that the necessary thresholds for Derived Marks are achieved.  This would be determined depending on the precise circumstances of the application of the Contingency Regulations.
e.  If none of these methodologies are appropriate, but the School wishes to make a recommendation to support the students’ progression then Schools may submit an urgent exceptional case to QSC to make a recommendation for how they are to be considered for progression.  Schools must agree this recommendation with their External Examiner. QSC will consider each request on its own merits.
f.  If none of these routes can enable the student to progress, then the students will need to wait for Actual Marks (see below).
8.  For avoidance of doubt, an Actual Mark not received in time for the Derivation Cutoff date (and so not used to calculate the Derived Mark but then received prior to the Exam Board Cutoff date, will be used as an Actual Mark at the Exam Board (even though that Actual Mark was not used to calculate the Derived Mark; in such circumstances the Derived Mark would not be recalculated.
9.  Part For Whole marks and Derived Marks can appear on a transcript as module marks. For avoidance of doubt, it will not show on the transcript that these are Part For Whole Marks or Derived Marks. This information may be able to be provided in supplementary documentation where essential.
Students with Extenuating Circumstances
10.  This section relates to students who have outstanding Assessments due to upheld Extenuating Circumstances (for example, where they have been granted a first sit for an exam).
11.  In line with Clause 7, Actual Marks, Part for Whole Marks and Derived Marks may be utilized to determine the module marks.
12.  In line with Clause 7, if by the Exam Board Cutoff Date a student has Actual Marks for Assessments that are worth at least 40% of the module, then UoN will designate the weighted average of those marks as the Part For Whole Mark for that module. This includes Partially Marked Assessments (subject as always to Clause 2).  At this point this could include the zero mark for the Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment.  However, the zero mark for the Extenuating Circumstances affected Assessment can be excluded in the part for whole calculation by the Exam Board if the non-Extenuating Circumstances affected Assessments with Actual Marks are worth at least 40% of the module.
13.  In line with Clause 7, if there are Actual Marks for Assessments that are worth less than 40% of the module, or there are no Actual Marks for Assessments for that module (subject as always to Clause 2), then using Actual Marks provided prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date, UoN will provide the student with a Derived mark for each Assessment that does not have an Actual Mark or Part For Whole Mark. The Derived Mark can be applied to the student record for Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments after they have Submitted the outstanding Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment.
However, it should be noted that if a student has outstanding Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments because of upheld Extenuating Circumstances at the Derivation Cutoff Date, the mark for those Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments will be recorded as a zero.  This zero will be used for the purpose of calculating the Derived Mark. This means that any resulting Derived Mark will be negatively impacted (lowered) and this is the Derived Mark that would be used for all Assessments without Actual Marks or Part For Whole Marks (whether or not an Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment).  It is not possible to recalculate a Derived Mark at a later date (such as after the Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment is Submitted).  Students in this position should take this information into consideration when making decisions whether or not to accept the application of the Contingency Regulations or whether to obtain Actual Marks (see below).
Progression Decisions
14.  If a student is unable to progress because of the application of the Contingency Regulations (for example due to a Part For Whole Marks or Derived Marks), Regulation 20 will be extended to  allow students to proceed carrying 40 credits of reassessments.
15.  For a student with outstanding Assessments because of upheld Extenuating Circumstances, which will be recorded as zero’s on their record pending Submitting the Assessment, where the Part For Whole Mark (if it includes zeros from Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments) and/or Derived mark is not representative of normal performance,  then the School may take this into account (for Zero Affected Modules) in making progression decisions under Regulations 10, 11 and 20. These considerations must be determined on a module basis, not elements of Assessments.  This must be minuted at the Exam Board.
Decision period
16.  If any module mark is designated as a Part For Whole Mark or Derived Mark, then, subject to Clause 2, and provided the student satisfies the progression regulations given those marks, then the student may progress to the next Stage depending upon their decision. All such students will automatically be offered a choice, supported with supplementary communications to explain in further detail, whether to accept or reject those marks and the progression/completion decision generated by the application of these Contingency Regulations:
The student must choose either to:
a.  accept the progression decision and the associated marks. Note, any unmarked Submitted Assessments will not subsequently be marked, and/or there will be no Equivalent Sit opportunities. This will be considered the default position (see below)
OR
b.  reject the progression decision and associated marks.  In this case the student will obtain Actual Marks as follows:
i.  if there was an original Submitted Assessment and it is not yet marked, to wait for that Assessment to be marked
and/or
ii.  if there was no original Assessment, or the original Submitted Assessment will never be marked (for example, due to irreparable damage to or loss of a script), the student may be offered an Equivalent Sit opportunity(s).
The student will be required to make this decision when they receive a provisional progression decision. There will be a decision period of time for the student to consider their choice and seek advice.  The deadline for the deadline will be communicated to students in advance of the decision period so that they can prepare accordingly. If the student does not respond by the deadline, it will be assumed that the progression decision and associated marks are accepted.
17.  If any module mark is designated as a Part For Whole Mark or Derived Mark, and a student does not satisfy the progression/completion regulations given those marks, then, subject to Clause 2, the progression decision and associated marks  will automatically be rejected and the student will wait for Actual marks or Equivalent Sit opportunity (see above).
18.  If a student chooses to reject the progression/completion decision and associated marks and to obtain Actual Marks, then:
a.  The decision would affect all the student’s marks.   It is not possible to retain Part For Whole Marks or Derived Marks for some modules and wait for Actual Marks / Equivalent Sit opportunities for other modules.
b.  The Actual Mark the student receives for their original assessment / Equivalent Sit will be used in place of Part For Whole Marks and Derived Marks. This means that their marks could go down or up, which could impact the progression/completion decision.
c.  UoN are not able to guarantee when a student will receive their Actual Marks and resulting progression/completion decision. This may mean they are not able to return at the start of the next academic year and it may be necessary for the student to interrupt for a year.
d.  UoN will do everything reasonably possible to ensure Assessments are marked promptly.  Where this period is extended, then from time to time (for example, when some more Actual Marks are available) students may be offered another decision period in case they decide to change their mind.  In this case, any non-response would be assumed to mean the original decision had not changed (i.e. they continue to reject the application of the Contingency Regulations).
19.  Where students are waiting for Actual Marks, Schools will prioritise these Assessments for marking.  This is a complex issue and will be decided at the time, as appropriate to the situation. It is expected that usually this prioirtisation would start with Assessments for students who are due to graduate in the next graduation period.   Additionally, the timing of marking will be dependent on when markers with the relevant expertise are available for marking.
Undergraduate: How to Calculate a Derived Mark
1.  The Derived Mark will be based on actual achievement from the current Stage and level, as far as reasonable. It will be based on:
a. Actual Marks from Completed Modules received prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date will be included. It should be noted that marks visible in Moodle may not be Actual Marks, in which case these would not be used; the Head of School (or Nominee) would determine if it was appropriate to use those marks.
b. Part For Whole Marks received prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date may be included.
c. If circumstances permit, Actual Marks from Assessments from Incomplete Modules received prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date may be included.
2.  The marks from Clause 1 (as circumstances permit), received prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date are the Completed Marks.
3.  Because it is necessary for the student to have Submitted all of the original Assessments (where offered) to be able to calculate a Derived Mark, it is not possible for a student to have a Derived mark applied to their record where an assessment opportunity has taken place but the student did not Submit that Assessment.  Note, where the student has an upheld Extenuating Circumstance’s claim (for example, for a later first sit), they may have the Derived mark applied to their record after they have Submitted the Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment(s).  However, the timing of the Extenuating Circumstance Affected Assessment may impact the value of the Derived Mark (where the Extenuating Circumstance Affected Assessment was not Submitted and marked at the time of the derivation) and this should be taken into consideration in deciding whether to accept or reject the use of the Contingency Regulations and the associated progression or classification outcomes and associated marks (see  ‘UG classification’, ‘UG progression’ and ‘FYQY progression’ documents).
4.  The credit value of the student’s Completed Marks in a Stage is the sum of the credits of the Completed Modules (whether entirely through Actual Marks or by way of designation of a Part For Whole Mark) plus the pro-rata credits of any Actual Marks for Assessments from Incomplete Modules where the circumstances permit their use for the Derived Mark (see Clause 1).
For example:
A student on a 20 credit module who has Actual Marks prior to the relevant cutoff for 100% of the Assessment for that module has completed 20 credits of assessment.
A student on a 20 credit module who has Actual Marks prior to the relevant cutoff for 50% of the Assessment for that module and where this meets the criteria to designate this a Part For Whole Mark has completed 20 credits of assessment.
A student on a 20 credit module who has Actual Marks prior to the relevant cutoff for 30% of the Assessment for that module has completed 6 credits of assessment.
5.  In order for the Derived Mark to be reliable, UoN need to make appropriate use of the evidence provided by these completed credits of assessment. UoN will calculate Derived Marks in accordance with the following thresholds:
a. If a student has Completed Marks for 60 credits or more from the current Stage, then the Completed Marks from the current Stage alone will be used to calculate the Derived mark.
b. If a student has Completed Marks for less than 60 credits from the current Stage, then Actual Marks from the previous Stage will additionally be used to calculate the Derived mark.
6.  The calculation of a Derived Mark requires the following information:
N: the number of credits on a  programme per Stage (for example  120 credits per Stage)
A: the credit-value of the student’s Completed Marks in this Stage
B: the student’s credit-weighted mean for the Completed Marks in this Stage
C: the student’s credit-weighted mean from module Actual Marks in the previous Stage
λ: λ = min(2A, N)/N. This means that to calculate the value of λ, one takes the lower value of either 2 times A or N (so if A is 45 credits and N is 120 credits, one takes the lower of 90 and 120, which is 90) and divide that number by N (which is this example was 120, so 90/120, which is 0.75; thus  λ is 0.75).
7.  The formula to calculate the Derived Mark is:
Derived Mark = λB + (1-λ) C
8.  The following information is given to further explain how derived marks are calculated from this formula.
9.  For example, for programmes with 120 credits per Stage, to estimate the derived mark:
Using the table below, take the figure in Column D which is closest to the credit value of the student’s Completed Marks in the current Stage (value A above).
From that row, note the values in columns E and F  (the weight for this Stage (E ) and the weight for the previous Stage (F)).
Multiply the student’s credit-weighted mean for the Completed Marks for this Stage (value B above) by the value in column E (the weight for current Stage) to create a new value called G
Also multiply the student’s credit-weighted mean for the Completed Marks in the previous Stage (value C above) by the value in column F (the weight for previous Stage) to create a new value called H
The estimate of your Derived Mark is equal to G+H.
How to calculate a derived mark
D.
Credits of module at
current Stage completed
E.
Weight for this Stage
F.
Weight for previous Stage
60 or more
1.00
0.00
55
0.92
0.08
50
0.83
0.17
45
0.75
0.25
40
0.67
0.33
35
0.58
0.42
30
0.50
0.50
25
0.42
0.58
20
0.33
0.67
15
0.25
0.75
10
0.17
0.83
5
0.08
0.92
0
0.00
1.00
10.  The following is a narrative for the formula:
If prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date a student has at least 60 credits of Completed Marks in the current Stage, the formula will result in the Derived Mark being that student’s weighted average of those marks.  UoN take this to be appropriate because marks at this Stage are the best predictor we have of your performance at this Stage and at least 60 credits is considered a sufficient body of evidence for this.
If prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date a student has fewer than 60 credits of Completed Marks in the current Stage, the formula will return a result that is a weighted average of the current Stage in combination with a weighted average from work from the previous Stage. UoN need to do this because a fully robust sample of the student’s performance at the current Stage is not available.
Progression and Classification - Postgraduate Taught (PGT)
1.  Where Assessments and/or marking have taken place during a period when Assessments and/or marking have been disrupted (for example, global pandemic, industrial action, power outage during exam), University of Nottingham (UoN) will operate classification and progression regulations that differ from the normal regulations but deliver the same learning outcomes.
2.  In order to apply the regulations described here:
a. The Head of School (or nominee) must satisfy themselves that students meet all of the programme level learning outcomes and meet with the approval of any relevant PSRB. If those conditions cannot be met by a student, then that student may not be classified until the Actual Marks are received.
b. Students must Submit all their Assessments even if a disruption is expected (for example, during a marking boycott). This includes re-assessments for failure in compensatable module(s) where the complete marks transcript is not available to determine whether or not compensation can take place. This is in the student's best interest because if the module is not compensated then they may delay or prevent completion.
3.  A student’s choosing to not Submit an Assessment will result in the award of a mark of zero for that Assessment.
4.  A student will be allowed to undertake a mixture of assessment and reassessment in the same exam period if they so wish (for example, to best enable them to graduate without delay).
5.  The 60-credit masters Dissertation/Project module must be treated separately and cannot be substituted by a Part For Whole Mark, Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark.  The Actual Marks for the Assessments for this module must be used alongside the outcome for the taught modules to determine the final classification for these students.  Heads of Schools are strongly encouraged to enable the marking of these assessments in time for the final Exam Board where possible.
For progression from the Taught Stage to the Dissertation Stage:
6.  For PGT Taught Stage modules where the Dissertation Stage does not have a pre-requisite of any of the taught modules, the student can progress to Dissertation Stage.
7.  Where pre-requisite(s) of one or more Taught Stage modules for progression onto the Dissertation Stage exist, Heads of School are asked to consider whether the student may progress or proceed to Dissertation Stage even if marks are not complete.  Schools may wish to consider the application of existing regulation (Regulation 24b) which allows students to proceed carrying 20 credits of resit marks in exceptional circumstances.
Application of the Contingency Regulations
8.  For PGT students there will usually be an Exam Board for Taught Stage modules to decide about progression to Dissertation Stage and/or necessary taught module reassessment.  There will always be a final Exam Board where classification decisions are made.
9.  Marks can only be derived (whether a Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark) for taught modules, not for project/dissertation module.
10.  Part for Whole Marks can only be used for taught modules (not for the dissertation/project module).
11.  Derived Marks/Provisional Derived marks (for taught modules) will only be calculated for one Exam Board. For example, if they are calculated for the Taught Stage Exam Board, they will not be recalculated for the final Exam Board.
12.  If a Part for Whole Mark, Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark is used for a taught module for progression in a Taught Stage Exam Board, and the use of Contingency Regulations is accepted by the student, those marks will stand for the final Exam Board for classification purposes.  i.e. those Taught Stage Assessments will not subsequently be marked.
13.  Normally, UoN operates an approach to progression and classification that uses a weighted average of Actual Marks from Completed Modules. When not all Assessment and/or marking is complete by the nominated Exam Board Cutoff Date, UoN will instead make use of a mixture of Actual Marks from Completed Modules, Part For Whole Marks calculated from Incomplete Modules where possible, and Derived Marks or Provisional Derived Marks based on current performance. It is not possible for PG Taught Stage to use past performance. All other parts of the classification model will remain the same (e.g. borderline regulations will not be changed).
14.  Mark decisions are considered at student level, so within the same Taught Stage Assessment or module, it is possible that one student has an Actual Mark, another a Part for Whole Mark, and another has a Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark.
15.  For Taught Stage, UoN will proceed as follows, if by the Exam Board Cutoff date:
a.  If all Assessments for a module have an Actual Mark (i.e. a Completed Module), UoN will use the Actual Marks for Assessments for that module.
b.  A student has Actual Marks for Assessments that are worth at least 40% of that taught module, then UoN will designate the weighted average of those marks as the Part For Whole Mark for that taught module. This includes Partially Marked Assessments (subject as always to Clause 2).
c.  A student has Actual Marks for Assessments that are worth less than 40% of the module, or there are no Actual Marks for Assessments for that module (subject as always to Clause 2), then using Actual Marks provided prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date, UoN will provide the student with either a Derived mark or a Provisional Derived mark, as appropriate,  for each Assessment in the Taught Stage that does not have an Actual Mark or Part For Whole Mark where it is possible to do so. The selection of marks to use and the formula used are explained in ‘Postgraduate Taught: How to calculate a derived mark and Provisional Derived Mark’. The Derived Mark and Provision Derived Mark will not apply to the Dissertation Stage.
d.  Where it is not possible to use a Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark for a student (subject to Clause 2), then the student may not progress and/or be classified until the Actual Marks are received.  UoN cannot guarantee when that will be.  It is likely that the student’s graduation will be delayed
16.  For Dissertation Stage, UoN will proceed as follows, if by the Exam Board Cutoff date:
a.  If all Assessments for the dissertation/project module have an Actual mark (i.e. a Completed Module),  UoN will use the Actual Marks for Assessments for that module.
b.  If a student does not have Actual Marks for the Assessments for the dissertation/project module prior to the Exam Board Cutoff Date , then it is not possible to apply a Part for Whole Mark or to calculate a Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark.  In such cases, the student may not be classified until the Actual Marks are received, as follows:
i.  if there was an original Assessment and it is not yet marked, they must wait for the original Assessment to be marked.  UoN cannot guarantee when that will be. It is likely that the student’s graduation will be delayed.
and/or
ii.  if there was no original Assessment, or the original Assessment will never be marked (for example, due to irreparable damage to or loss of a script or recording), the student may be offered an Equivalent Sit opportunity(s). UoN cannot guarantee when that will be.  It is likely that the student’s graduation will be delayed.
17.  For avoidance of doubt, an Actual Mark not received in time for the Derivation Cutoff date (and so not used to calculate the Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark) but then received prior to the relevant Exam Board Cutoff Date, will be used as an Actual Mark at the Exam Board (even though that Actual Mark was not used to calculate the Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark); in such circumstances the Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark would not be recalculated.
18.  Part For Whole Marks, Derived Marks, and Provisional Derived Marks can appear on a transcript as module marks. For avoidance of doubt, it will not show on the transcript that these are Part For Whole Marks, Derived Marks, or Provisional Derived Marks.  This information may be able to be provided in supplementary documentation where essential.
Students with Extenuating Circumstances:
19.  This section relates to students who have outstanding Assessments due to upheld Extenuating Circumstances (for example, where they have been granted a first sit for an exam).
20.  In line with Clause 15, Actual Marks, Part for Whole Marks, Derived Marks and Provisional Derived Marks may be utilized to determine the module marks for the Taught Stage.
21.  In line with Clause 15, if by the Exam Board Cutoff Date a student has Actual Marks for Assessments that are worth at least 40% of the taught module, then UoN will designate the weighted average of those marks as the Part For Whole Mark for that taught module. This includes Partially Marked Assessments (subject as always to Clause 2).  At this point this could include the zero mark for the Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment.  However, the zero mark for the Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment can be excluded in the part for whole calculation by the Exam Board if the non-Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments with Actual Marks are worth at least 40% of the taught module.
22.  In line with Clause 15, if there are Actual Marks for Assessments that are worth less than 40% of the taught module, or there are no Actual Marks for Assessments for that taught module (subject as always to Clause 2), then using Actual Marks provided prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date, UoN will provide the student with a Derived mark or Provisional Derived Mark for each Assessment in the Taught Stage that does not have an Actual Mark or Part For Whole Mark. The Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark can be applied to the student record for Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments after they have Submitted the outstanding Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment.
However, it should be noted that if a student has outstanding Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments because of upheld Extenuating Circumstances at the Derivation Cutoff Date, the mark for those Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments will be recorded as a zero.  This zero will be used for the purpose of calculating the Derived Mark and Provisional Derived Mark. This means that any resulting Derived Mark and Provisional Derived Mark will be negatively impacted (lowered) and this is the Derived Mark and Provisional Derived Mark that would be used for all Assessments without Actual Marks or Part For Whole Marks (whether or not an Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment).  It is not possible to recalculate a Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark at a later date (such as after the Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment is Submitted).  Students in this position should take this information into consideration when making decisions whether or not to accept the application of the Contingency Regulations or whether to obtain Actual Marks (see below).
Discounting Marks
23.  If the Part for Whole Mark or Derived Mark (not the Provisional Derived Mark) is lower than the average for the Taught Stage, the School may discount up to 20 credits of these Part for Whole Marks or Derived Marks for the classification decision. This must be minuted at the Exam Board. This provision is separate from and additional to any application of regulation 24b. For avoidance of doubt, where such a Part for Whole Mark may have been included in the Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark calculations, the Derived Mark and Provisional Derived Mark would not be recalculated.
24.  For students with outstanding Assessments because of upheld Extenuating Circumstances, which will be recorded as zero’s on their record pending Submitting the Assessment, where the Part For Whole Mark (if it includes zeros from Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments) and/or Derived Mark (not the Provisional Derived Mark) is lower than average for the Taught Stage, then the School may discount up to 40 credits of Zero Affected Modules for the classification decision.  This decision must be minuted at the Exam Board. This provision would include any application of regulation 24b.  (For example, a School could discount 20 credits under 24b plus 20 credits under this clause; or 0 credits under 24b plus up to 40 credits under this clause).
Decision period
25.  If any taught module mark is designated as a Part For Whole Mark, Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark, then, subject to Clause 2, and provided the student satisfies the progression regulations given those marks, then the student may progress to the Dissertation Stage depending on their decision. All such students will automatically be offered a choice, supported with supplementary communications to explain in further detail, whether to accept or reject those marks and the progression decision generated by the application of these Contingency Regulations:
The student must choose either to:
a.  accept the progression decision and the associated marks. Note, any unmarked Submitted Assessments will not subsequently be marked and/or there will be no Equivalent Sit opportunities. This will be considered the default position (see below).
OR
b.  reject the progression decision and associated marks.  In this case the student will obtain Actual Marks as follows:
i.  if there was an original Submitted Assessment and it is not yet marked, they must wait for that Assessment to be marked
and/or
ii.  if there was no original Assessment, or the original Submitted Assessment will never be marked (for example, due to irreparable damage to or loss of a script), the student may be offered an Equivalent Sit opportunity(s).
The student will be required to make this decision when they receive a provisional progression decision. There will be a decision period of time for the student to consider their choice and seek advice.  The deadline for the decision will be communicated to students in advance of the decision period so that they can prepare accordingly. If the student does not respond by the deadline, it will be assumed that the progression decision and associated marks are accepted.
26.  If any taught module mark is designated as a Part For Whole Mark, Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark, and a student does not satisfy the progression regulations given those marks, then, subject to Clause 2, the progression decision and associated marks will automatically be rejected and the student will wait for Actual Marks or Equivalent sit opportunity (in line with Clause 25ii above).
26.  If a student chooses to reject the progression decision and associated marks to obtain Actual Marks then:
a.  The decision would affect all the student’s marks.   It is not possible to retain Part For Whole Marks, Derived Marks or Provisional Derived Marks on some modules and wait for Actual Marks/Equivalent Sit opportunities for other modules.
b.  The Actual Mark the student receives for their original Assessment / Equivalent Sit will be used in place of Part For Whole Marks, Derived Marks and Provisional Derived Marks. This means that their mark could go down or up, which could impact the progression and classification decision.
c.  UoN are not able to guarantee when a student will receive their Actual Marks and resulting progression decision. This would also have a knock on effect for the classification decision.  In these circumstances, UoN is not able to guarantee when the student will receive their Actual Marks or progression / classification decisions.  It is likely that graduation will be delayed.
d.  UoN will do everything reasonably possible to ensure Assessments are marked promptly.  Where this period is extended, then from time to time (for example, when some more Actual Marks are available) students maybe offered another decision window in case they decide to change their mind.  In this case, any non-response would be assumed to mean the original decision had not changed (i.e. they still continue to reject the application of the Contingency Regulations).
Classification
27.  If any taught module mark is designated as a Part For Whole Mark, Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark, then please see above.
28.  Given the Dissertation Stage does not allow any use of Part for Whole Marks, Derived Marks or Provisional Derived Marks, only Actual Marks for dissertation/project modules will be presented to the Exam Board (albeit circumstances could be such that these marks are delayed, see above).  These project/dissertation module Actual Marks will be combined with the marks from the Taught Stage (see above).  Accordingly, there is no need for a further decision period as there is no further application of the Contingency Regulations.  The classification decision will be presented to students in the usual way.
29.  Where students are waiting for Actual Marks, Schools will prioritise these Assessments for marking.  This is a complex issue and will be decided at the time, as appropriate to the situation. It is expected that usually this prioritisation would start with Assessments for students who are due to graduate in the next graduation period.   Additionally, the timing of marking will be dependent on when markers with the relevant expertise are available for marking.
Classification - Postgraduate Certificate (PG Cert) / Postgraduate Diploma (PG Dip)
1.  Where Assessments and/or marking have taken place during a period when Assessments and/or marking have been disrupted (for example, global pandemic, industrial action, power outage during exam), University of Nottingham (UoN) will operate classification regulations that differ from the normal regulations but deliver the same learning outcomes.
2.  In order to apply the regulations described here:
a.  The Head of School (or nominee) must satisfy themselves that students meet all of the programme level learning outcomes and meet with the approval of any relevant Professional Statutory Regulatory Body (PSRB). If those conditions cannot be met by a student, then that student may not be classified until the Actual Marks are received.
b.  Students must Submit all their Assessments even if a disruption is expected (for example, during a marking boycott). This includes re-assessments for failure in compensatable module(s) where the complete marks transcript is not available to determine whether or not compensation can take place. This is in the student's best interest because if the module is not compensated then they may delay or prevent completion.
3.  A student’s choosing to not Submit an Assessment will result in the award of a mark of zero for that Assessment.
4.  A student will be allowed to undertake a mixture of assessment and reassessment in the same exam period if they wish to (for example, to best enable them to graduate without delay).
5.  Part For Whole Marks and Derived Marks can appear on a transcript as module marks.  For avoidance of doubt, it will not show on the transcript that these are Part For Whole Marks or Derived Marks. This information may be able to be provided in supplementary documentation where essential.
6.  Where students are waiting for Actual Marks, Schools will prioritise these Assessments for marking.  This is a complex issue and will be decided at the time, as appropriate to the situation. It is expected that usually this prioirtisation would start with Assessments for students who are due to graduate in the next graduation period.   Additionally, the timing of marking will be dependent on when markers with the relevant expertise are available for marking.
Classification process for PGCert
7.  Normally, UoN operates an approach to classification that uses a weighted average of Actual Marks from Completed Modules. When not all Assessment and/or marking is likely to be complete by the nominated Exam Board Cutoff date, UoN will instead  make use of a mixture of Actual Marks from Completed Modules, and Part For Whole Marks calculated from Incomplete Modules where possible. Derived Marks based on past performance are not possible for PGCert. All other parts of the classification model will remain the same (eg. borderline regulations will not be changed).
8.  Mark decisions are considered at student level, so within the same Assessment or module, it is possible that one student has an Actual Mark, and another a Part for Whole Mark.
UoN will proceed as follows, if by the Exam Board Cutoff date:
a.  If all Assessments for a module have an Actual Mark (i.e. a Completed Module, UoN will use the Actual Marks for Assessments for that module.
b.  A student has Actual Marks for Assessments that are worth at least 40% of the module, then UoN will designate the weighted average of those marks as the Part For Whole Mark for that taught  module. This includes Partially Marked Assessments (subject as always to Clause 2).
c.  For PG Cert students, UoN cannot offer a Derived Mark as there is not a sufficient body of past Actual Marks from which to draw from as an indication of past performance. Accordingly, if by the Exam Board Cutoff Date the student has Actual Marks for Assessments that are worth less than 40% of the module, or no Actual Marks for Assessments for that module (subject to Clause 2), then the student may not be classified until the Actual Marks are received.  UoN cannot guarantee when that will be.  It is likely that the student’s graduation will be delayed.
PGCert - Discounting Marks
9.  Given the smaller evidence base, it is not possible to discount Part for Whole Marks outside of the usual Regulations.
PGCert - Decision Period
10.  If any module mark is designated as a Part For Whole Mark  then, subject to Clause 2, the student will automatically be offered a choice, supported with supplementary communications to explain in further detail, whether to accept or reject a classification generated by the application of these Contingency Regulations:
The student must choose either to:
a.  accept the classification and the associated marks.  Note, any unmarked Submitted Assessments will not subsequently be marked and/or there will be no Equivalent Sit opportunities. This will be considered the default position (see below).
OR
b.  reject the classification and the associated marks.  In this case the student will obtain Actual Marks as follows:
i.  if there was an original Submitted Assessment and it is not yet marked, they must wait for that Assessment to be marked
and/or
ii.  if there was no original Assessment, or the original Submitted Assessment will never be marked (for example, due to irreparable damage to or loss of a script), the student may be offered an Equivalent Sit opportunity(s).
The student will be required to make this decision when they receive a provisional classification. There will be a decision period of time for the student to consider their choice and seek advice. The deadline for the decision will be communicated to students in advance of the decision period so that they can prepare accordingly.  If the student does not respond by the deadline, it will be assumed that the classification and associated marks are accepted.
11.  If a student chooses to reject the provisional classification and associated marks and to obtain Actual Marks, then:
a.  The decision would affect all the student’s marks.  It is not possible to retain Part for Whole marks for some modules and wait for Actual Marks/Equivalent Sit opportunities for other modules).
b.  The Actual Mark the student receives for their original Assessment/Equivalent Sit will be used in place of Part for Whole Marks. This means that their marks could go down or up, as could their classification.
c.  UoN are not able to guarantee when a student will receive their Actual Marks or resulting classification. It is likely that their graduation will be delayed.
d.  UoN will do everything reasonably possible to ensure Assessments are marked promptly.  Where this period is extended, then from time to time (for example, when some more Actual Marks are available) students may be offered another decision period in case they decide to change their mind.  In this case, any non-response would be assumed to mean the original decision had not changed (i.e. they continue to reject the application of the Contingency Regulations).
Classification process for PG Dip
12.  Normally, UoN operates an approach to classification that uses a weighted average of Actual Marks from Completed Modules. When not all Assessment and/or marking is likely to be complete by the nominated Exam Board Cutoff Date, UoN will instead make use of a mixture of Actual Marks from Completed Modules, Part For Whole Marks calculated  from Incomplete Modules where possible,and Derived Marks based on past performance. All other parts of the classification model will remain the same (e.g. borderline regulations will not be changed).
13.  Mark decisions are considered at student level, so within the same Assessment or module, it is possible that one student has an Actual Mark, another a Part for Whole Mark, and another has a Derived Mark.
14.  UoN will proceed as follows, if by the Exam Board Cutoff Date:
a.  All Assessments for a module have an Actual mark (i.e. a Completed Module), UoN will use the Actual Marks for Assessments for that module.
b.  A student has Actual Marks for Assessments that are worth at least 40% of the module, then UoN will designate the weighted average of those marks as the Part For Whole Mark for that module. This includes Partially Marked Assessments (subject as always to Clause 2).
c.  A student has Actual Marks for Assessments that are worth less than 40% of the module, or there are no Actual Marks for Assessments for that module (subject as always to Clause 2), then using Actual Marks provided prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date, UoN will provide the student with either a Derived Mark or a Provisional Derived Mark, as appropriate, for each Assessment that does not have an Actual Mark or Part For Whole Mark where it is possible to do so. . The selection of marks to use and the formula used are explained in ‘Postgraduate Taught: How to calculate a Derived Mark and Provisional Derived Mark’).
d.  Where it is not possible to use a Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark for a student (subject to Clause 2), then the student may not progress and/or be classified until the Actual Marks are received, as follows:
i.  if there was an original Assessment and it is not yet marked, they must wait for the original Assessment to be marked.  UoN cannot guarantee when that will be. It is likely that the student’s graduation will be delayed.
and/or
ii.  if there was no original Assessment, or the original Assessment will never be marked (for example, due to irreparable damage to or loss of a script or recording), the student may be offered an Equivalent Sit opportunity(s). UoN cannot guarantee when that will be.  It is likely that the student’s graduation will be delayed
15.  For avoidance of doubt, an Actual Mark not received in time for the Derivation Cutoff Date (and so not used to calculate a Derived Mark) but then received prior to the Exam Board Cutoff Date, will be used as an Actual Mark at the Exam Board (even though that Actual Mark was not used to calculate the Derived Mark); in such circumstances the Derived Mark would not be recalculated.
PGDip - Discounting Marks
16.  If the Part for Whole Mark or Derived Mark is lower than the average for the Stage, the School may discount up to 20 credits (on a module basis, not by elements of Assessments) of these Part for Whole Marks or Derived Marks for the classification decision. This must be minuted at the Exam Board.  This provision is separate from, and additional to, any application of Regulation 24b. For avoidance of doubt, where such a Part for Whole Mark may have been included in the Derived Mark calculations, the Derived Mark would not be recalculated.
17.  For students with outstanding Assessments because of upheld Extenuating Circumstances (also see below), which will be recorded as zero’s on their record pending Submitting the Assessment, where the Part For Whole Mark (if it includes zeros from Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments) and/or  the Derived mark is lower than average for the Stage, then the School may discount up to 40 credits of Zero Affected Modules for the classification decision. This decision must be minuted at the Exam Board. This provision would include any application of Regulation 24b and any application of the previous Clause. For example, could discount 20 credits under 24b plus 10 credits under this clause plus 10 credits under the previous Clause).
PGDip – Decision Period
18.  If any module mark is designated as a Part For Whole Mark or Derived Mark, then, subject to Clause 2, the student will automatically be offered a choice, supported with supplementary communications to explain in further detail, whether to accept or reject a classification generated by the application of these Contingency Regulations:
The student must choose either to:
a.  accept the classification and the associated marks.  Note, any unmarked Submitted Assessments will not subsequently be marked and/or there will be no Equivalent Sit opportunities.  This will be considered the default position (see below).
or
b.  reject the classification and the associated marks.  In this case the student will obtain Actual Marks as follows:
i.  if there was an original Submitted Assessment and it is not yet marked, they must wait for that Assessment to be marked
and/or
ii.  if there was no original Assessment, or the original Submitted Assessment will never be marked (for example, due to irreparable damage to or loss of a script), the student may be offered an  Equivalent Sit opportunity(s).
The student will be required to make this decision when they receive a provisional classification. There will be a decision period of time for the student to consider their choice and seek advice.  This deadline for the decision will be communicated to students in advance of the decision period so that they can prepare accordingly.  If the student does not respond by the deadline, it will be assumed the classification and associated marks are accepted.
19.  If a student chooses to reject the provisional classification and associated marks and to obtain Actual Marks, then:
a.  The decision would affect all the student’s marks.  It is not possible to retain Part For Whole Marks or Derived Marks for some modules and wait for Actual Marks/Equivalent Sit opportunities for other modules.
b.  The Actual Mark the student receives for their original Assessment / Equivalent Sit will be used in place of Part for Whole and Derived Marks. This means that their mark could go down or up, as could their classification.
c.  UoN are not able to guarantee when they will receive their Actual Marks or resulting classification. It is likely that their graduation will be delayed.
d.  UoN will do everything reasonably possible to ensure Assessments are marked promptly.  Where this period is extended, then from time to time (for example, when some more Actual Marks are available) students may be offered another Decision Period in case they decide to change their mind.  In this case, any non-response would be assumed to mean the original decision had not changed (i.e. they continue to reject the application of the Contingency Regulations).
20.  Where students are waiting for Actual Marks, Schools will prioritise these Assessments for marking.  This is a complex issue and will be decided at the time, as appropriate to the situation. It is expected that usually this prioritisation would start with Assessments for students who are due to graduate in the next graduation period.   Additionally, the timing of marking will be dependent on when markers with the relevant expertise are available for marking.
Students with Extenuating Circumstances
21.  This section relates to PGCert and PGDip students who have outstanding Assessments due to upheld Extenuating Circumstances (for example, where they have been granted a first sit for an exam).
22. As stipulated above, depending whether a PGCert of PGDip student, a combination of Actual Marks, Part for Whole Marks, Derived Marks and Provisional Derived Marks may be utilized to determine the module marks.
23.  Both PGCert and PGDip students may have marks designated as Part For Whole Marks for some modules (see above).  These Part For Whole Marks may include the zero mark for the Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment.  However, the zero mark for the Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment can be excluded in the part for whole calculation by the Exam Board if the non-Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments with Actual Marks are worth at least 40% of the module.
24.  In addition, PGDip students may have a Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark assigned to Assessments without Actual Marks or Part For Whole Marks (see above). The Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark can be applied to the student record for Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments after they have Submitted the outstanding Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment.
However, it should be noted that if a student has outstanding Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments because of upheld Extenuating Circumstances at the Derivation Cutoff Date, the mark for those Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments will be recorded as a zero.  This zero will be used for the purpose of calculating the Derived Mark and Provisional Derived Mark. This means that any resulting Derived Mark and Provisional Derived Mark will be negatively impacted (lowered) and this is the Derived Mark and Provisional Derived Mark that would be used for all Assessments without Actual Marks or Part For Whole Marks (whether or not an Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment).  It is not possible to recalculate a Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark at a later date (such as after the Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment is Submitted).  Students in this position should take this information into consideration when making decisions whether or not to accept the application of the Contingency Regulations or whether to obtain Actual Marks (see above).
Postgraduate Taught: How to Calculate a Derived Mark and Provisional Derived Mark
1.  The Derived mark will be based on actual achievement from the Taught Stage, as far as reasonable. It will be based on:
a.  Actual Marks from Completed Modules received prior to the Derivation Cut Off Date.  It should be noted that marks visible in Moodle may not be Actual Marks, in which case these would not be used; the Head of School (or Nominee) would determine if it was appropriate to use those marks.
b.  Part for Whole Marks received prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date may be included.
c.  If circumstances permit, Actual Marks from Assessments from Incomplete Modules received prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date may be included.
2. The marks from Clause 1(as circumstances permit), received prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date are the Completed Marks.
3.  It is not possible to create a Part For Whole Mark or Derived Mark for the Dissertation Stage. Also, Actual Marks from the Dissertation Stage cannot be used to calculate a Taught Stage Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark.
4.  It is not possible to calculate a Derived Mark for a student studying for a Postgraduate Certificate.
5.  Because it is necessary for the student to have Submitted all of the original Assessments (where offered) to be able to calculate a Derived Mark, it is not possible for a student to have a Derived Mark applied to their record where an assessment opportunity has taken place but the student did not Submit that Assessment.  Note, where the student has an upheld Extenuating Circumstance’s claim (for example, for a later first sit), they may have the Derived mark applied to their record after they have Submitted the Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment(s).  However, the timing of the Extenuating Circumstance Affected Assessment may impact the value of the Derived Mark (where the Extenuating Circumstance Affected Assessment was not Submitted and marked at the time of the derivation) and this should be taken into consideration in deciding whether to accept or reject the use of the Contingency Regulations and the associated progression or classification outcomes and associated marks (see  ‘PGT progression and classification’ and ‘PGDipCert progression and classification’ documents).
6.  The credit value of the student’s Completed Marks for the Taught Stage is the  sum of the credits of the Completed Modules (whether entirely through Actual Marks or by way of designation of a Part For Whole Mark) plus the pro-rata credits of any Actual Marks from Incomplete Modules  where the circumstances permit their use for the Derived Mark or Provisional Derived Mark (see Clause 1).
For example:
A student on a 20 credit taught module who has Actual Marks prior to the relevant cutoff for 100% of the Assessment for that module has completed 20 credits of assessment.
A student on a 20 credit taught module who has Actual Marks prior to the relevant cutoff for 50% of the Assessment for that module and where this meets the criteria to designate this a Part For Whole Mark has completed 20 credits of assessment.
A student on a 20 credit taught module who has Actual Marks prior to the relevant cutoff for 30% of the Assessment for that module has completed 6 credits of assessment.
7.  In order for the Derived Mark and Provisional Derived Mark to be reliable, UoN need to make appropriate use of the evidence provided by these completed credits of assessment. UoN will calculate Derived Marks and Provisional Derived Marks in accordance with the following thresholds:
a.  If a student has Completed Marks totalling at least 50% of the credits for the Taught Stage by the Derivation Cutoff Date (e.g. at least 60 credits for programmes with 120 credits of taught modules), then these Completed Marks will be used to calculate the Derived Mark for the Taught Stage.   In this case, the Derived Mark will be the weighted average of these Completed Marks which are received prior to Derivation Cutoff Date.
b.  If a student has Completed Marks totalling between 16.6% and 50% of the credits for the Taught Stage  by the Derivation Cutoff Date (e.g. between 20 to 60 credits for programmes with 120 credits of taught modules), then UoN cannot be entirely confident that the student’s credit weighted average is a proper representation of their ability at this level. As such, for these cases UoN will calculate a Provisional Derived Mark for the Taught Stage.  This Provisional Derived Mark will be the weighted average of the Completed Marks which are received prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date.
c.  Where a student has Completed Marks totalling less than 16.6% of the credits for their Taught Stage by the Derivation Cutoff date (e.g. less than 20 credits for programmes with 120 credits of taught modules), UoN cannot generate Derived Marks or Provisional Derived Marks for the Taught Stage. In these circumstances, the student may not be classified until the Actual Marks are received.  UoN cannot guarantee when that will be.
8.  When considering classification and/or completion of Taught Stage, Exam Boards will have sight of the Actual Marks for the Assessments for the relevant Stage(s), and the Provisional Derived Mark for the Taught Stage. If the student’s Provisional Derived Mark for the Taught Stage is either of 2 degree classes (i.e. Pass, Merit, Distinction) or 15 marks higher or lower than the actual Taught Stage average (that is, the weighted mean of module marks for Taught Stage which will be a combination of Actual Marks, Part For Whole Marks, Derived Marks and Provisional Derived Marks), Exam Boards are asked to not use the Provisional Derived Mark  for the purposes of Taught Stage completion or classification.  In these circumstances, the student may not be classified until the Actual Marks are received.  UoN cannot guarantee when that will be.
Glossary
Actual Mark:
The Actual Mark is the mark that comes from the Assessment submission actually (sic) having been marked, by a person with appropriate expertise. It is for Heads of School (or deputy) to decide whether sufficient marking and moderation has taken place for that mark to be used. An Actual Mark applies to each Assessment (so, to each element of module assessment).  For example, a module may have three assessments, a coursework for 20% of the credits, a presentation for 30% of the credits and an exam for 50% of the credits.  Each of these three elements would, in normal circumstances, have an Actual Mark.
Assessments:
This includes all summative assessments (for example, exams, coursework, presentations, vivas) and all summative reassessments (whether as first sit or subsequent sits). It also includes all elements of assessment and reassessment within a module.   For example, a module may have three summative assessments (or reassessments): a coursework for 20% of the credits, a presentation for 30% of the credits, and an exam for 50% of the credits.  Each of these three elements is an Assessment.
Completed Marks:
These are marks as described in Clauses a, b and c (below) that are received by the relevant department prior to the Derived Mark Cutoff Date, and which may be used to generate a Derived Mark (or Provisionally Derived Mark). The Completed Marks will be based on the marks as listed below, some of which would always be included (Clause a) and some of which may be included in different circumstances (Clauses b and c):
a. Actual Marks from Completed Modules will be included. It should be noted that marks visible in Moodle may not be Actual Marks, in which case these would not be used; the Head of School (or Nominee) would determine if it was appropriate to use those marks.
b. Part For Whole Marks may be included. This will depend on whether the associated Actual Marks have been received prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date and also whether a decision about whether these are designated as Part For Whole Marks has been made prior to the Derivation Cutoff Date.
c. If circumstances permit, Actual Marks from Assessments from Incomplete Modules may be included. This will depend on a complex array of circumstances and is decided at University level.
Completed Module
: These are modules where Actual Marks have been received by the relevant cutoff date for all elements of assessment.  For example, a module may have three elements of assessment: a coursework for 20% of the credits, a presentation for 30% of the credits and an exam for 50% of the credits.  Each of these three elements would, in normal circumstances, have an Actual Mark.  In these circumstances (i.e. Actual Marks for all elements) this would be considered a Completed Module.  The module mark would be calculated in the usual weighted average way.
Contingency Regulations:
These are the UoN’s regulations which are to mitigate against risk to student classification and progression where University business has been significantly disrupted. These regulations will be utilised when authorised by Senate.
Decision Period:
This is the period of time given to student to consider the progression or classification decision (and associated marks) arrived at following the application of the Contingency Regulations.  It would usually be a few working days.  Ahead of and during this period students should consider their options and seek advice.  The deadline for the decision will also be notified to students ahead of the Decision Period where possible.
Derived Mark:
The calculations used for Derived Marks are explained in ‘Undergraduate: How to Calculate a Derived Mark’ and ‘Postgraduate Taught: How to Calculate a Derived Mark and Provisional Derived Mark’ sections.
Derived Mark Cutoff date:
If and when the contingency regulations are enacted by Senate in periods of disruption, the Pro Vice Chancellor for Education and Student Experience and Deputy Registrar will set relevant cut off dates.  It is possible that these are different for different student groups (e.g. UG, PGT, PGR) depending on the circumstances.  The Derived Mark Cutoff date will be the date by which all Actual Marks need to be received by (so by close of business on that date) in order for that mark to be included in the calculation of the derived mark for that module.
Dissertation Stage:
This relates to Postgraduate Taught students only. These students notionally have two Stages in their Programme of Study.  The Taught Stage relates to the taught (sic) modules that are not the final dissertation or research project.  For example, for a one-year full time masters totalling 180 credits, there would be 120 credits of taught modules; for a two-year full time programme there would be up to 180 credits of taught modules). This is followed by a Dissertation Stage (normally 60 credits).  In calculating a student’s Derived Mark, Taught Stage relates to the taught modules a student has  taken. For a Postgraduate Diploma, the 120 credits relate to the Taught Stage of the masters and there is not a Dissertation Stage.  In calculating a student’s Derived Mark, Taught Stage relates to the taught modules the student has taken.
Equivalent Sit:
If all goes to plan a student undertakes one sit at an Assessment.  For various reasons sometimes additional sits are required.  For example, a student may fail a module and need a reassessment (or even a second reassessment if they are eligible).  Equally sometimes a student has an Extenuating Circumstance (for example, they are admitted to hospital on the day of an exam) and may be offered a first attempt at that assessment at a later date (a first sit).  An Equivalent Sit means that the student will get another equal attempt at that Assessment, whether it was the student’s first sit, a reassessment or a second reassessment.
Exam Board Cutoff Date
: If and when the contingency regulations are enacted by Senate in periods of disruption, the PVC ESE and Deputy Registrar will set relevant cut off dates.  It is possible that these are different for different student groups (e.g. UG, PGT, PGR) depending on the circumstances.  The Exam Board Cutoff date will be the date by which all Actual Marks need to be received by (so by close of business on that date) in order for that mark to be included in the classification or progression decisions that the exam board will make.
Extenuating Circumstances Affected Module:
A module with one or more Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments.
Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment:
If a student has an upheld extenuating circumstance claim for a particular assessment which is still outstanding (for example, first sit for an exam which has not been Submitted whether through self cert or otherwise) at the relevant date, then that assessment is considered Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment on that date. Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments will be recorded as zero in the records until the assessment is Submitted, then the zero would be replaced by an Actual Mark, Part For Whole Mark or Derived Mark as per the relevant circumstances.
Incomplete Module:
these are modules where Actual Marks have not been received for all elements of assessment for that module.
Non-Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessments:
Any Assessment which is not an Extenuating Circumstances Affected Assessment.
Part For Whole Mark:
This mark can be calculated when there are Actual Marks for Assessments, including Partially Marked Assessments, that are worth at least 40% of the module. The weighted average of those Actual Marks will be the Part For Whole Mark for that module.
Partially Marked Assessments:
for Part for Whole purposes, a Partially Marked Assessment is when some questions within that assessment are marked and some are not, enabling a weighted average of the marks to generate an Actual Mark for that Assessment. For example, if an exam was weighted 100% for the module and it had 4 questions each worth 25 marks each, if due to the reasons for the application of the contingency regulations two questions were marked and two were not, then the Actual Mark would equate to 50% of the credits of the module and thus could be used as a Part for Whole Mark for that module.
Provisional Derived Mark
: the calculations used for Provisional Derived Marks are explained in ‘Postgraduate Taught: How to Calculate a Derived Mark and Provisional Derived Mark’ section.
Stage:
A student’s Stage refers to the academic year of study: for instance, Qualifying Year, Part I, Part II, Part III.
Submitted:
For the contingency regulations to be applied for a student it is necessary that the student has attended, completed and/or submitted that assessment.  For simplicity, the contingency regulations refer to this as Submitted the Assessment (or Submit).  This applies to all forms of summative Assessment (for example, exams, coursework, presentations).
Taught Stage:
This relates to Postgraduate Taught students only. These students notionally have two Stages in their Programme of Study.  The Taught Stage relates to the taught (sic) modules that are not the final dissertation or research project.  For example, for a one-year full time Master’s programme totalling 180 credits, there would be 120 credits of taught modules; for a two-year full time programme there would be up to 180 credits of taught modules). This is followed by a Dissertation Stage (normally 60 credits).  In calculating a student’s Derived Mark, Taught Stage relates to the taught modules the student has taken. For a Postgraduate Diploma, the 120 credits relate to the Taught Stage of the Master’s programme and there is not a Dissertation Stage.  In calculating a student’s Derived Mark, Taught Stage relates to the taught modules the student has taken.
Zero Affected Modules:
These are modules which include a Part For Whole Mark or Derived Mark (not Provisional Derived Mark) where those calculations included zeros from Extenuating Circumstance Affected Assessments. When discounting such modules the credits for discounting must be determined on a module basis, not by elements of Assessment.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
04 February 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/exceptional-classification-and-progression-regulations.aspx
Header: Exceptional classification and progression regulations
Intro: This page contains the exceptional regulations that were developed in May/June 2021/22. Its content applies to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Exceptional classification and progression regulations - The University of NottinghamExceptional classification and progression regulations
This page contains the exceptional regulations that were developed in May/June 2021/22. Its content applies to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.During the 2021-22 May/June examination period, University of Nottingham (UofN) will operate classification and progression regulations that differ slightly from the normal regulations and will partially resemble those operated during the summer of 19/20, when COVID-19 prevented UofN from being able to set and mark particular kinds of examination and coursework. The regulations apply to all 3 campuses.
Progression - UG
The exceptional UG progression regulations, and guidance on how to calculate a derived mark, are contained in the following documents:
Exceptional progression regulations
How to calculate a derived mark
Classification - UG
The exceptional UG classification regulations, and guidance on how to calculate a derived mark, are contained in the following documents:
Exceptional classification regulations
How to calculate a derived mark
Progression - Foundation and Qualifying Year
The exceptional Foundation and Qualifying Year progression regulations, and guidance on how to calculate a derived mark, are contained in the following documents:
Exceptional progression regulations - Foundation and Qualifying Year
How to calculate a derived mark
Classification - PG Cert / PG Dip
The exceptional PG Cert and PG Dip classification regulations, and guidance on how to calculate a derived mark, are contained in the following documents:
Exceptional classification regulations - PG Cert / PG Dip
How to calculate a derived mark
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
07 June 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/exceptional-regulations-covid-19.aspx
Header: Exceptional regulations: Covid-19
Intro: This section contains the exceptional regulations that were developed in response to the coronavirus pandemic.
Content:
Exceptional regulations: Covid-19 - The University of NottinghamExceptional regulations: Covid-19
This section contains the exceptional regulations that were developed in response to the coronavirus pandemic.Pages within this section
Exceptional regulations - University of Nottingham UK (UNUK)
Exceptional regulations - University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC)
Exceptional regulations - University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM)
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
12 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/recent-changes/changes-in-2024.aspx
Header: Changes in 2024
Intro: This page contains a record of all changes made to the Quality Manual in 2024.
Content:
Changes in 2024 - The University of NottinghamChanges in 2024
This page contains a record of all changes made to the Quality Manual in 2024.From the 2024/25 academic session, sections of the Quality Manual are being reformatted to align with the new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework. Where substantive changes are made alongside reformatting, these will be listed below.
November 2024
Contingency Regulations
The University has reviewed and updated its contingency regulations, the purpose of which are to mitigate against risk to student classification and progression where University business has been significantly disrupted.
Contingency Regulations
October 2024
Student Engagement and Attendance
Following approval of the Student Engagement and Attendance Policy by ESEC, the regulations governing Student Engagement and Attendance - UK Campus page has been rewritten to remove any duplication and to reference the new Policy document.
Regulations governing attendance and engagement - UNUK
September 2024
Extenuating Circumstances
There have been a handful of updates made to the EC Regulation in the Quality Manual in time for the next academic year
Re-introduction of first sit outcomes permitted for coursework reassessment where students will sit it in the next reassessment period and will require a new assignment
Some clarification on wording related to Postgraduate Research progression reviews and reports
Re-numbering of the Recommendations of Outcomes section (4.4.3)
Expansion of self-certification for exams to assessments held within term time.
Extenuating circumstances
School Assessments Responsibilities (Including Examinations Officer)
Updates to the Examination Paper Template and also an update to examination rubrics for dictionaries, calculators, multiple choice question papers and open book exams.
School Examinations Officer role
Policy on marking and grading
A change has been approved for coursework marking. Anonymous marking is now required where possible and appropriate
Policy on marking and grading
Academic Appeals
In the 2024/25 academic year, the academic appeals policy and procedure will be replaced by a single code of practice. This will apply to all students and staff at the UK campuses. UNNC and UNM will continue under the existing academic appeals policy and procedure until codes of practice for their respective campuses are available.
Academic Appeals Code of Practice
Student Complaints
In the 2024/25 academic year, the student complaints policy and procedure will be replaced by a single code of practice. This will apply to all students and staff at the UK campuses.  UNNC and UNM will continue under the existing student complaints policy and procedure until codes of practice for their respective campuses are available.
Student Complaints Code of Practice
Policy on Feedback to Students
The maximum time for return of feedback for the qualifying year (Year1) UNUK is being extended to 20 working days
Feedback to students
Examinations Officer Role
A simplification and clarification of School Assessment Responsibilities including the Exams Officer Role. The changes made are intended to ensure that the Assessment Responsibilities owned by Schools are more reflective.
School Examinations Officer role
August 2024
Quality Manual Overview
As part of ongoing work to improve the clarity of the Quality Manual, the landing page of the Quality Manual has been updated to provide an overview of and additional information about the purpose of the Quality Manual.  Further information has also been added to the ‘Governance’ pages, with a separate section about how to request changes to the Quality Manual and about how to submit an exceptional case to the Quality and Standards Committee.  Some items have been reorganised to better locate them.
Quality Manual Landing Page
Periodic Assurance and Continuous Enhancement Review (PACER)
The University’s Educational Enhancement and Assurance Review process has been reviewed and from the 24/25 academic year will be replaced by the Periodic Assurance and Continuous Enhancement Review (PACER). Details of the new process, supporting templates and timelines can be found here:
Periodic Assurance and Continuous Enhancement Review
Regulation on Conflict of Interest
The university’s current conflict of interest policy has been reviewed to ensure continued compliance with OfS and IfATE requirements of the University as an end point assessment organisation for integrated apprenticeship provision.  Changes have been made to the scope of the regulation to ensure independence of the assessment from the programme team.  Changes in format are also included to ensure compliance with the University Framework on polices
Regulation on Conflict of Interest
UNM Staff Student Fora
The revised process for the University of Nottingham Malaysia Campus sets out to provide further guidance and clarification on the conduct of SSFs and its associated processes applicable for Foundation, UG and PGT
UNM Staff Student Fora
Apprenticeship End Point Assessment Process
The EPA process document has been refreshed for the 2024/25 academic year.
Apprenticeship End Point Assessment Process
Disabled Support Plans
Changes made following a review encompassing the following:
Providing a definition, taken from the Disability Support website, to explain who is included under the term ‘Disabled Student’. Thereafter using only ‘disabled student’ to provide consistency.
Provide relevant information for UNM and UNNC
Updating links
Textual changes
Disabled students
Teaching and timetabling arrangements for disabled students
Examination arrangements for disabled students
Curriculum pages
Pages have been reformatted to align with the new University Of Nottingham Policy and Management Framework. Additionally the following updates have been made:
Changes have been made to explain the timelines which are now in operation to update programme and module specifications. The changes were made to ensure there is in built compliance with Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) guidelines, specifically around timeliness of material information for students and prospective students.
Clarifies when additional approval is required for changes  to programme and module information and circumstances where student  consultation is required.
Minor update to provide clarity on process to close or suspend a programme.
Minor change to process and timing of submitting external advice
Minor updates to the information about process and criteria for submitting a new module. An additional module criteria has been added to confirm student mobility as a reason to introduce a new module.
Minor update to the guidance to provide clarity, particularly around target students and mobility measures.
Clarifications around Learning outcomes and Curriculum maps.
Addition to the key principles section to clarify the situation in relation to free speech and academic freedom to align with guidance from Universities UK and Office for Students.
The University has introduced principles that should underpin the design of programmes. These should be considered when designing changes to programmes or modules or in the design of new programmes and modules. In advance of these being formally adopted into regulations, colleagues are asked to note these
Programme and module design and approval
July 2024
Regulations on the retention of students assessed work
The regulations on the retention of students assessed work
have been reviewed and updated to reflect the guidance issues by the OFs on the retention of students assessed work
PGT supervision expectations
Clarifications have been made to the
PGT supervision expectations
page to address UKVI regulatory requirements that were not captured in the previous regulations
June 2024
Personal Tutoring - Academic Guides
A new page has been created for the role of an '
Academic Guide
' within the Personal Tutor pilot in the in the Schools of Psychology (UK & UNM) and Law
High Performance Athlete academic flexibility
Changes have been made to the
High Performance Athlete regulations
to both update it in terms of changes to the EC regulation, and to make the interaction with the visa and immigration rules clearer.
May 2024
UG and PGT assessment regulations
Clarifications on the use of reassessment relating to ‘elements’ of assessment have been implemented within
Undergraduate
and
Postgraduate Taught
Assessment Regulations.
Voluntary interruption of study
New link for the
pilot school students
to follow to find the digital form. And a video to show them how to complete it.
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research in Geography
Minor updates have been made to regulations for
MRes in Geography
, to bring in line with main MRes Regulations.
International campuses and quality assurance
Updates made to the wording of the
International Campuses quality assurance regulations
.
Regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD and Master of Philosophy (MPhill)
Guidance for
staff wishing to submit for a research degree by submission of published works
has been updated.
Changes of taught course
The University has provided equivalent information and guidance relating to
internal transfers for students studying at China and Malaysia campuses.
This change was informed due to the omission of equivalent guidance for students studying outside of the UK campus.
April 2024
Senior Tutor surveys
Addition of the
requirement on Senior Tutors
to annually survey all students in their school about the tutoring system. This is for ongoing QA, and enhancement work.
Policy on Academic Misconduct
Due to feedback indicating misunderstanding of the earlier update, the
Policy on Academic Misconduct
(2.1.2) has been updated to clarify use of translation and paraphrasing software can be permitted by schools or assessment guidance. Where appropriate and permitted by relevant Units/Schools, students’ can continue to use this to improve their writing. Students should check locally as to what is permitted.
The role of the PGR supervisor
Changes have been made to
the role of the PGR supervisor
:
The role of the PGR supervisor has been updated to add in that supervision occurs until submission of the thesis and during any subsequent period of corrections.
The number of supervisory meetings per annum has been increased (from 10 to 12 pa) and these must be at least monthly (pro rata for part time).
If the required minima meetings are not possible, the supervisor is responsible to ensure that a written report is still prepared which records the reason for the missed meeting.  These reports will be reviewed on a case by case basis to see if additional support is needed.
The definition of what constitutes a supervisory meeting has been clarified and that these must be formally recorded.  It is important that at these meetings the PGR’s progress to date and/or the future direction of their research or thesis writing is discussed.
These meetings need to be principally in person (and always in person where the PGR is in the UK on a student visa).
The thesis pending period (including policy on extension)
Minor amendments to reasons that do not warrant an extension to
the thesis pending period
for postgraduate research students have been made.
The role of the PGR supervisor has also been updated to add in that supervision occurs until submission of the thesis and during any subsequent period of corrections.  The changes made to ‘Responsibilities of supervisors’ apply here too.
Regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD and Master of Philosophy (MPhill)
The role of the PGR supervisor
has been updated to add in that supervision occurs until submission of the thesis and during any subsequent period of corrections.  The changes made to ‘Responsibilities of supervisors’ apply here too.
Programme and module design and approval
This change
is to limit new modules (and modules within new programmes) to restrict the length of in person exams to 1, 2 or 3 hours and of ‘at home’ exams to 1, 2, 3 or 24 hours. It is also intended that existing programmes/modules comply with these exam durations, unless there are necessary reasons why not (e.g. PSRB requirements).
Voluntary interruption of study
Change made to clarify the position regarding
compulsory breaks in learning for apprentices
. A new form has been introduced for this purpose.
Responsibilities of the School Postgraduate Student Advisor
To clarify
the scope of the SPSA role
and make corrections to incorrect Professional Service names
March 2024
SET / SEM Surveys
Corrections have been made to the
Student Evaluation of Teaching
/
Student Evaluation of Modules
pages of the quality manual to bring them in line with current practice.
Apprenticeship Independent Assessors
Clarification of the wording in the Quality Manual around the
appointment for the role of Independent Assessor.
University of Nottingham Online Extenuating Circumstances Regulation
The
UoNO Extenuating circumstances regulation
has been published.
February 2024
Degree outcomes statement
A revised version of the University's
degree outcome statement
has been published.
QSC case request
The
QSC procedure for cases outside of regulations
has been updated to provide more clarity on roles and responsibilities. New online forms have been created to replace word documents for UG/PGT and PGR cases. The updated process and guidance on completing the forms will be communicated to Schools/Departments shortly.
QSC membership
QSC membership
has been extended to include a representative from the student wellbeing team and additional faculty representation from UNM and UMNC.
Supplementary regulations for the Professional Doctorate in Education
Clarification that, due to local context, the
MA in Education Research and Postgraduate Diploma in Education Research
are not applicable to University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC) for applying as a degree/award nor as a result of Viva examination.
January 2024
Extenuating Circumstances
A change has been made to the format of Section 4 of the
Extenuating Circumstances Regulations
to make it easier to access. There has been no material change to the policy
Professional Work-based Learning
In the academic year 2023/24 the University of Nottingham Online introduced a
set of regulations to support learners engage in credit-bearing micro-credentials
, and to allow the University of Nottingham Online to
verify the provision of external providers of Continuing Professional Development (CPD)
. Notes have been added to the
Admissions
,
Personal tutoring, student support and development
,
Student engagement and representation
and
Registration, attendance and study
pages to clarify that these sections do not apply to UoNO learners
Role and appointment of examiners for research degree programmes
The
Role and responsibilities of the internal assessor
and
Role and appointment of examiners for research degree programmes
regulations have been amended to bring practice into line with sector norms, streamline process and improve student experience.
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy)
New supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) for
2021 and 2022 cohort
, and for those
joining the programme in 2023
have been added to the Quality Manual.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 January 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/exceptional-regulations-covid-19-unuk.aspx
Header: Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNUK
Intro: This page contains the exceptional regulations that were developed in response to the coronavirus pandemic. Its content only applies to staff and students at the University of Nottingham UK (UNUK).
Content:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNUK - The University of NottinghamExceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNUK
This page contains the exceptional regulations that were developed in response to the coronavirus pandemic. Its content only applies to staff and students at the University of Nottingham UK (UNUK).During academic year 2019/20, the University introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. These were campus-specific and meant to be read in conjunction with any pre-existing content within the Quality Manual.
From the beginning of academic year 2021/22, the active application of all Covid-19 exceptional regulations at the University of Nottingham UK (UNUK) has now ceased, with the exception of those concerning Admissions. These will remain active at UNUK until 30 September 2022 and can be found in the section below.
Please note, however, that any outcomes from the application of the exceptional regulations during the 2019/20 and 2020/21 academic years will continue to be honoured and used in all future decisions regarding those affected.
For more information about the exceptional regulations and the content that was affected during academic years 2019/20 and 2020/21, please consult the following:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNUK - 2019/20 to 2020/21
Admissions
The exceptional regulations for English language equivalencies are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 English language equivalencies - UNUK
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Policy on minimum English language entry requirements
Policy on alternative English language qualifications
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
12 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/exceptional-regulations-covid-19-unnc.aspx
Header: Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNNC
Intro: This page contains the exceptional regulations that were developed in response to the coronavirus pandemic. Its content only applies to staff and students at the University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC).
Content:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNNC - The University of NottinghamExceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNNC
This page contains the exceptional regulations that were developed in response to the coronavirus pandemic. Its content only applies to staff and students at the University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC).During academic year 2019/20, the University introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. These were campus-specific and meant to be read in conjunction with any pre-existing content within the Quality Manual.
From the beginning of academic year 2021/22, the active application of all Covid-19 exceptional regulations at the University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC) has now ceased.
Please note, however, that any outcomes from the application of the exceptional regulations during the 2019/20 and 2020/21 academic years will continue to be honoured and used in all future decisions regarding those affected.
For more information about the exceptional regulations and the content that was affected during academic years 2019/20 and 2020/21, please consult the following:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNNC - 2019/20 to 2020/21
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
12 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/exceptional-regulations-covid-19-unm.aspx
Header: Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNM
Intro: No intro paragraph found
Content:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNM - The University of NottinghamExceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNM
This page contains the exceptional regulations that were developed in response to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Its content only applies to staff and students at the University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM).During academic year 2019/20, the University introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. These were campus-specific and meant to be read in conjunction with any pre-existing content within the Quality Manual.
From the beginning of academic year 2021/22, the active application of all Covid-19 exceptional regulations at the University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM) has now ceased, with the exception of those which cover extenuating circumstances. These will remain active at UNM until further notice and can be found in the section below.
Please note, however, that any outcomes from the application of the exceptional regulations during the 2019/20 and 2020/21 academic years will continue to be honoured and used in all future decisions regarding those affected.
For more information about those regulations which have NOT been extended into 2020/21, as well as the content that was affected during academic years 2019/20 and 2020/21, please consult the following:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNM - 2019/20 to 2020/21
Extenuating circumstances
The exceptional regulations for Extenuating circumstances and the University's guidance for Extenuating circumstances panels are contained in the following documents:
Covid-19 EC Exceptional Regulations - UNM
Exceptional Guidance to Extenuating Circumstances Panels
These documents should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Extenuating circumstances procedure
Policy on circumstances affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments
Services for Students - Extenuating Circumstances
The thesis pending period (including Policy on extension)
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
12 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/registration-and-attendance/regs-governing-attendance-and-engagement-unuk.aspx
Header: Regulations governing Student Engagement and Attendance - UK Campus
Intro: This page contains the University's regulations in relation to student engagement and attendance. Its contents are applicable to staff and students at the UK campus.
Content:
Regulations governing Student Engagement and Attendance - UK Campus - The University of NottinghamRegulations governing Student Engagement and Attendance - UK Campus
This page contains the University's regulations in relation to student engagement and attendance. Its contents are applicable to staff and students at the UK campus.Please note that students in the UK on a Student Route visa are also affected by the University's Policy on Immigration Sponsorship. Where academic policies and immigration policies seem to be contradictory, immigration policies will take precedence. For more information, please consult the following:
Immigration sponsorship
1.0 Purpose
The University monitors the engagement and attendance of its students for the purposes of wellbeing and improving academic outcomes, and, where required to, will report non-engagement and/or non-attendance to the appropriate bodies. This page outlines the regulations relating to this and links to the University Student Engagement and Attendance Policy and Code of Practice.
Student Engagement and Attendance Policy
Student Engagement and Attendance Code of Practice (Staff Only)
2.0 Key Principles
2.1
Students are responsible for organising their residential and other arrangements to facilitate engagement and attendance as required by their programme. Students must attend all teaching activities necessary for their studies, undertake all associated assessments and attend meetings and other activities as required by their school or the University.
2.2
The Policy on Circumstances Affecting Students' Ability to Study and Complete Assessments details the processes that students and schools should follow when a student’s ability to study or take assessments is in any way affected, including if the student wishes the University to consider an Extenuating Circumstance. Where students wish to interrupt their study, they should follow the University's procedure on voluntary interruption of study. Retrospective interruption of study is not permitted. For more information, please consult the following:
Policy on circumstances affecting students ability to study and complete assessments
Voluntary interruption of study
2.3
Where a student is not engaging with or attending their studies, the School should follow the Student Engagement and Attendance Policy and Code of Practice. Where the School requires the student to suspend, and the student does not wish to voluntarily interrupt their study, then the recommendation to suspend should be forwarded by the School to Registry & Academic Affairs for consideration by the Quality and Standards Committee (QSC). If the School’s recommendation is ratified, the student will be required to suspend. Where it is identified that the student would benefit from additional support, the School should follow the Support to Study procedure.
2.4
Schools will use the Student Engagement Dashboard and the official University attendance capture system in order to follow this procedure, as outlined on the Student Engagement and Attendance policy. This policy is in place to support student wellbeing with engagement being a key indicator.
2.5
The University has a Code of Practice for managing student engagement and attendance. For more information please consult the Student Engagement and Attendance webpage.
2.6
For student visa holders, the University has a Code of Practice for UKVI academic engagement. For more information please consult the UKVI Code of Practice.
2.7
The University has a policy regarding students required to withdraw temporarily or permanently on grounds of health and safety and it may be appropriate to manage non-engagement and/or non-attendance through that procedure rather than through these regulations. For more information, please consult the following:
Students required to withdraw on grounds of health and safety
Support to Study Policy
2.8
If data in the Student Engagement Dashboard indicates that a student is not attending any modules, supervision or other required activities and the School has confirmed that the student is not engaging and the student provides no explanation for this non-attendance when invited to do so and does not engage with the process for contacting a disengaged student, the Assumed Withdrawal process will be followed. Further information about this can be found in the regulations governing registration in the Quality Manual and in the Engagement and Attendance Policy (link above).
Registration, attendance and study
2.9
Where a student replies to the Assumed Withdrawal communication and provides an explanation for their absence, this will be considered by the School and any other relevant departments (such as the Visa and Immigration team and Student Account Services) who must determine whether the explanation provides good cause for the absence and whether and how a return to studies is viable, given missed learning. If the explanation offered does not establish good cause, the Assumed Withdrawal process will stand.
2.10
If a student is identified in the Student Engagement Dashboard as having zero attendance and the School has no knowledge at all as to the student's whereabouts the School should contact Student and Campus Life and the emergency contact protocol will be applied.
Postgraduate Research Students
2.11
Annual leave for research students should be in accordance with the relevant guidance and where students do not comply with this they may be managed under this policy.
Responsibilities of the student (PGR)
Apprenticeship Students
2.12
This is applicable to all learners on a Degree Apprenticeship programme commencing study from August 2022.
2.13
Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) funding rules require that active learning must take place at least every four weeks and evidence provided, in the case of block release programmes, active learning must take place every three months and evidence provided. Otherwise break in learning must be enacted to stop funding to the University. The Compliance and Engagement Team (Institute for Professional and Work-based learning) routinely measure evidence of active learning and will notify an apprentice where a non-compliance is found, giving five working days to respond and provide evidence.
For more information about ESFA funding rules, please consult the following:
Apprenticeship funding rules
2.14
If evidence is not submitted within those five working days, Registry and Academic Affairs will apply a suspension from studies.
2.15
Apprentices commencing study from August 2022 will have contractual obligations outlining this requirement, and any queries related to apprentice starts before this date should be directed to the Compliance and Engagement Team (Institute for Professional and Work-based learning).
3.0 Related Regulations, policies and procedures
Immigration sponsorship
Policy on circumstances affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments
Voluntary interruption of study
Support to Study Policy
Student Engagement and Attendance Policy
Student Engagement and Attendance Code of Practice (Staff Only)
UKVI Code of Practice
Students required to withdraw on grounds of health and safety
Responsibilities of the student (PGR)
Registration, attendance and study
Emergency contact protocol
Apprenticeship funding rules
4.0 Version Control Table
Version Control Table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Rewritten to avoid duplication with Student Engagement and Attendance Policy and reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework based on content last modified on 12 August 2024
QSC
October 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
27 November 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/ext-circumstances.aspx
Header: Extenuating circumstances regulation
Intro: This page contains the University's extenuating circumstances regulation and provides links to the relevant procedures and associated guidance. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Extenuating circumstances regulation - The University of NottinghamExtenuating circumstances regulation
This page contains the University's extenuating circumstances regulation and provides links to the relevant procedures and associated guidance. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1. Introduction/Overview
This section explains the University's extenuating circumstances regulation and provides links to the relevant procedures and associated guidance.
2. Purpose
During the course of a student’s degree programme, they might be faced with exceptional personal, medical or family problems and/or difficult and distressing events that are outside their control and that negatively affect their ability to take assessments and their academic performance. Such problems are known as 'extenuating circumstances'.
Extenuating circumstances are situations or events that meet all of the following criteria:
Exceptional - different to what a student has to deal with in their usual day-to-day life.
Outside of a student’s control – there was nothing that the student could do to stop it happening.
Negative impact – it must have had a demonstrably significant, negative impact on the student’s ability to study or to undertake an assessment.
The timing of the circumstances must be relevant to the claimed impact; these are usually short-term in nature.
The extenuating circumstances regulation and associated procedures provides mechanisms by which students may bring extenuating circumstances to the attention of the University and allow for the consideration of the impact of those extenuating circumstances on their academic performance and the provision of measures to address the impact, where possible and appropriate.
3. Scope
Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses. Where there are differences in regulation due to campus regulatory environment, these will be indicated. The regulation will be applied by the campus where the affected module is being taken.
4. General Principles
If a student believes that their circumstances are affecting their ability to study, prepare or participate in assessments, then it is the student’s responsibility to let University staff know about those circumstances in a timely manner.
The University is committed to supporting its students and will seek to take account of extenuating circumstances where it is possible and appropriate to do so, and when they are informed in a timely manner.
For the purpose of extenuating circumstances, assessments are either an exam or coursework.  Ultimately the decision which type an assessment is for extenuating circumstances purposes is for the School/Department to decide and to inform students (usually via the module handbook). This coursework/exam distinction is important as it impacts the timeline for the extenuating circumstances claim and the possible outcomes.
The definition of an examination for extenuating circumstances purposes is a timetabled in-person written examination; an e-exam whether in-person or online; a language oral examination; individual presentations or vivas; and/or a practical skills-based (e.g. OSCE/OSPE) exam; group presentations or vivas would be considered exams. Note that group presentations or vivas and in-class assessments are not permitted for self-certification (i.e. evidence would always be required). A PGR progression review will be classified as an exam for extenuating circumstances purposes.
Coursework includes any assessment where instructions are given in advance and students have days/weeks/months to prepare the submission.  PGR progression reports are included in this category. Coursework assignments are normally submitted through Moodle and/or through Turnitin.
4.1 Guidance on acceptable and unacceptable circumstances
4.1.1
The following gives guidance and examples of the types of circumstances and whether they might be considered as good cause for non-compliance with an assessment requirement or for missing teaching or required study. This is given without prejudice and for general guidance; it is not exhaustive, definitive or prescriptive.
4.1.2
In general terms the extenuating circumstances regulation and procedures are intended to support students with circumstances that meet all the criteria in Clause 2 above. This should be used sparingly by students to address only those circumstances where there is significant impact.
4.1.3
Normally students would
not
be expected to submit multiple extenuating circumstances claims for the same assessment.  Where they do, the previous outcomes would be cumulatively taken into account in determining the new outcome, which may include rejecting the claim.
4.1.4
Where a student has suffered from a series of discrete short-term illnesses resulting in multiple extenuating circumstances claims, a meeting should be arranged with the Personal Tutor and Support and  Wellbeing Officer (UNUK) or School Senior Tutor (UNNC) (or other appropriate staff member, e.g. PGR supervisors or SPSA) to consider the support options available, including the possibility of a voluntary interruption to study.
For more information, please consult the following:
Voluntary interruption of study
4.1.5
Extenuating circumstances would normally be limited to within one semester.  A pragmatic approach with due regard for proportionality should be taken in this regard.  Chronic conditions of the student would not be considered acceptable exceptional circumstances and the student should be advised to review the Policy on long-term conditions or disabilities affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments so that appropriate support for study or individual arrangements for examinations can be put in place. It may sometimes be necessary for a student to consider the possibility of voluntarily interrupting their studies until the circumstances have been resolved.
For more information, please consult the following:
Policy on long-term conditions or disabilities affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments
Voluntary interruption of study
4.1.6
The University considers each claim of extenuating circumstances on its own merits, as an individual case and according to the relevant regulation and procedures.
4.1.7
The following table of examples of the kind of acceptable and unacceptable circumstances are given without prejudice and for general guidance; it is not exhaustive, definitive or prescriptive: Due regard should be given to the reasonableness and proportionality of the outcome in determining what are and are not acceptable circumstances.
Acceptable and unacceptable circumstances
Circumstance
Acceptable circumstances
Unacceptable circumstances
Illness
This is usually illness that spans more than 5 working days.  However, sometimes an acute illness would warrant an exceptional circumstance (for coursework and/or exams).
This includes students who have has a  late diagnosis of a disability or long-term medical condition.
Short-term illness are not normally acceptable circumstances with regards coursework, where the student is given a number of weeks/months to complete and submit such work. However, the precise circumstances and timing of events will be relevant.
As general guidance an illness/ailment that does not require medical treatment or does not lead to a student being bedridden or will not cause a significant risk to others will not normally be acceptable circumstances.  Minor illnesses (e.g. colds) are not acceptable circumstances.
Hospitalisation
This circumstance is generally limited to extended or particularly seriously acute stays in hospital.
A short visit to minor injuries unit or A&E would not normally be considered acceptable circumstances.
A
cute injury
If you have recently had an accident, injury or are experiencing a short-term health condition (for the first time), you may be in a position to request a short-term adjustment for your upcoming in-person exams (e.g. a scribe if you have broken your hand, or more time/rest breaks).
Family illness
The claim should make clear the nature of the relationship between the student and the affected relative and how the student’s ability to study has been impacted.  This would normally only include close relatives (i.e. parents, siblings) but, with that concept in mind, it should be recognised that family structures vary.
These would usually be a short-term condition.
However, where the circumstances are external to the student and extend over more than one semester, such as chronic illness of a relative, it may be appropriate to accept the same circumstances for a longer period than one semester if it is not appropriate for the student to voluntarily interrupt their studies.  In such circumstances the student must discuss the situation with their School/Department and submit an extenuating circumstances form each semester to ensure that appropriate account is taken of the circumstances and appropriate support can be offered to the student.
This would not normally be extended to family pets.
Bereavement
The claim should make clear the nature of the relationship between the student and the deceased and how the student’s ability to study has been impacted. The circumstances of the bereavement may also be relevant.
This would not normally be extended to family pets.
IT and/or computer failure during e
-
examinations
This relates to the period of an e-exam only (not for coursework or exam revision).  This applies whether the exam is undertaken online remotely or on UoN facilities. Evidence will always be required.
For e-exams, loss or corruption of files is not an acceptable extenuating circumstance.  It is the student's responsibility to ensure that all work which is electronically stored, generated and/or submitted is sufficiently backed up, including backing up drafts of the work to the cloud or external sources.
IT and/or computer failure more broadly
n/a
For assessed coursework (or exam revision), loss or corruption of files is not an acceptable extenuating circumstance. It is the student's responsibility to ensure that all work which is electronically stored, generated and/or submitted is sufficiently backed up, including backing up drafts of the work to the cloud or external sources.
Withdrawal of IT facilities or suspension for reason of debt are not acceptable circumstances.
Acute personal /e
motional circumstances
These may be considered acceptable circumstances, but students will need to demonstrate that they are seeking appropriate support including liaison with their personal tutor.
As with all extenuating circumstances, the University must be told about these circumstances in a timely manner (prior to the cut offs given in the extenuating circumstances procedure).
Pregnancy
The University has a
policy on pregnancy related issues
. Students who are pregnant should follow the guidance in this document. In some cases it may be appropriate to use the extenuating circumstances procedure (for instance when a student suffers from a specific illness caused by the pregnancy), in which case the requirements for illness or hospitalisation above should be followed.
M
aternity or paternity leave
Please see the guidance for supporting students with
pregnancy and parental caring responsibilitie
s.
Please note, fathers are permitted to request extenuating circumstances for paternity leave.
Victim of crime
It will be necessary to demonstrate how this has affected the student’s ability to study and/or undertake assessment, with reference to other requirements as necessary (e.g. acute personal/emotional circumstances/hospitalisation).
Domestic disruption
This applies only in relation to examinations unless the circumstances are exceptionally severe and extended.
Disturbances caused by housemates would generally be considered normal and therefore not acceptable as an extenuating circumstance. See also ‘accommodation disturbances’.
Accommodation disturbances
It is the student’s responsibility to ensure that they have access to suitable accommodation, including for any assessments offered in the reassessment period and for the full calendar year for postgraduate students, and therefore ongoing or foreseeable problems with accommodation are not normally acceptable circumstances.
Representing the University at a national event or involvement in some other significant/ prestigious event
This would apply to a wide variety of events, including but not limited to sporting events. Reference should also be made to the
High Performing Athlete policy
.
Jury service (UK)
A student who is asked to undertake jury service that would affect their ability to meet any of the requirements of their programme should make a request to the Court for the Jury Service to be deferred.  Only where the Court has refused such a deferral will Jury Service be considered as an acceptable extenuating circumstance.
Deferral of Jury Service is only permitted once by the Courts.
Court attendance (UK)
This would apply when a student had to make a court appearance (e.g. as a witness) or is accompanying someone attending court. This is different to jury service.
Transport issues
Exceptional and unforeseeable transport issues only.
It is expected that students will ensure that they arrive at the assessment on time, irrespective of the form of transport used or relied upon. An inability to travel as a result of circumstances beyond the student's control may though constitute sufficient cause e.g. cancellation of a train/plane, car breakdown.  Students should, however, allow a reasonable contingency time in any travel arrangements made, including application for travel authorisation paperwork, as moderate delays are considered a normal expectation.
Holidays
n/a
It is the student's responsibility to ensure that they are available for all study activities and all assessments, including any assessments taking place on Saturdays in the main examination periods or offered in the reassessment period (August – September). All holidays and vacations should take place at a time that will not impact on the student's availability to study or undertake or prepare for an assessment(s).
Misreading the examination timetable
It is the student's responsibility to ensure that they know and remember the location, time and duration of all formal assessments.
Scheduling of assessments/deadlines
Deadlines being close together or examinations scheduled close together will not normally constitute acceptable circumstances.
Paid employment or voluntary work
Where unforeseen or exceptional work commitments arise, these may be considered acceptable circumstances (this would normally only apply for part time students or apprentices).
It is expected that students will ensure that any paid employment or voluntary work does not interfere with their ability to engage with their studies or assessments. It should be noted that examinations may be scheduled to take place on Saturdays during the published examination periods. The University has
guidance for students undertaking employment or other activities during their studies
.
Exam stress
This may be considered an acceptable circumstance if a medical diagnosis of illness is made (see illness above).  Medical evidence would be required.
Preparing for and taking assessments can be a demanding time both physically and psychologically and feeling ‘below par', stressed and anxious leading up to and during an assessment(s) is a common experience of many students and therefore not an extenuating circumstance. The typical symptoms associated with ‘exam stress’ (e.g. anxiety, sleeping disturbances, feeling nauseous etc.) would not normally be considered acceptable extenuating circumstances.
Religious observance
If a student has completed
the Religious Observance Form
by the published deadline and it has not been possible to make alternative arrangements centrally, the School/Department should take reasonable steps to provide an alternative assessment opportunity. Where this is not possible, the School/Department may consider a claim under this policy.
Students may submit extenuating circumstance claims in respect of performance in assessments affected by symptoms attributable to religious observance (e.g. Ramadan).
Absence from an assessment for reason of religious observance, where no Religious Observance Form has been completed, or where the relevant permission for absence has not been obtained prior to the assessment, will not be deemed an acceptable extenuating circumstance.
Religious observance requirements will not normally be regarded as an extenuating circumstance with regard to assessed coursework where the student is given a number of weeks/months to complete and submit such work.
Criminal conviction
n/a
If a student is convicted of a criminal offence any disruption caused by the investigation or sentence is not an acceptable extenuating circumstance.
Foreseeable/preventable circumstances
n/a
Where the circumstances are within the control of the student they would not normally constitute sufficient cause for failure to comply with the assessment requirements or engage fully with their studies.
Being reluctant to disclose the circumstances for any reason
Not informing the University of circumstances for any reason are not considered to be credible and compelling explanations for non-submission of contemporaneous claims. The University can only consider circumstances if they are disclosed in accordance with this policy.
Submitting the same extenuating circumstances more than once
This would only be considered acceptable if the student has accessed appropriate support to manage the circumstances but there is an unexpected acute episode at a particularly significant time.
Submitting the same extenuating circumstances more than once would not normally be considered an acceptable circumstance.
L
ong term conditions
n/a
It is not normally possible for the circumstance to have arisen more than 12 months before the affected assessment for a claim to be made under this regulation.
Matters which extend over 12 months would need to claim under the
Policy on long-term conditions or disabilities affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments
so that appropriate support for study or individual arrangements for examinations can be put in place.
4.2 Requirement for evidence
Extenuating circumstance claims with evidence have a broader range of outcomes available to them than those without evidence.
Also, some assessments are not allowed to have extenuating circumstances claims without evidence.  Schools/Departments will notify students (e.g. via the module handbook) which assessments these are.
Students studying on the UNM or UNNC campuses (whether full time or as an exchange student) are not permitted to have extenuating circumstances without evidence, whether exam or coursework, due to local regulations.
4.2.1   Self-certification from an exam (no evidence required)
Not applicable to circumstances relating to modules being undertaken at the UNM or UNNC campuses.
Where a student is prevented from attending an individual summative examination due to circumstances which meet all of the criteria set out in the Extenuating Circumstances Regulation (Clause 2), they may use self-certification if they are unable to provide any other form of evidence.
For clarity, this policy is intended for use by students who, unexpectedly, are unable to attend an examination due to short-term, acute circumstances e.g. a migraine or sickness and diarrhoea, and who are unable to obtain medical evidence of this. If a student wishes to give advance notice of their inability to sit an examination, evidence will be required for this as part of their EC claim.
Self-certification is only available for individual, summative, in person examinations; it will not be accepted for:
absence from a group assessment.
absence from a practice placement.
an examination that the student attended (self-certification is only applicable to non-attendance of assessments).
Students may self-certificate absence from an examination(s) for a maximum of 2 consecutive calendar days in an examination period, using the extenuating circumstances (EC) claim form. For absence of more than two consecutive calendar days, or for a further EC claim in the same examination period, medical or other evidence is required.
The only potential outcome available in the event of a self-certificated absence claim is a further attempt at the assessment. That is, student who are absent from an examination and who self-certify will be required to undertake the examination at the next scheduled time the examination is run, normally in the August/September ‘re-sit’ period. The student will be offered a further attempt on the same basis as the missed assessment i.e. if a first sit attempt assessment was missed, a further first attempt will be offered, if a reassessment was missed, a further reassessment attempt will be offered.  Bespoke examinations to facilitate progression, graduation etc. will not be scheduled i.e. there will be no opportunity to take reassessments outside the next scheduled period.
Normally, the further attempt will be in the format of an examination, however, a different form of re-assessment to assess whether the learning outcomes are achieved, as determined by the School/Department, may be recommended if the same or equivalent of the original is no longer possible.
Self-certified assessments are not eligible for discounting by Examination Boards for the purposes of calculating either module marks or degree classifications.
Students should be aware that if they self-certify their absence from a reassessment examination, they may be prevented from progressing to the next stage of study, if the progression requirements of the course have not been met. Subject to the progression requirements of the course, some students may be able to proceed to the next stage of study, carrying the outstanding assessment but, if not, they will have to interrupt their studies until the next scheduled assessment opportunity. Registry and Academic Affairs will notify students of the impact of their non-attendance on progression after the meeting of the relevant progression or classification Examination Board.
4.2.2 Self-certifying for other assessment types:
Schools may allow students to self-certify for other individual, summative assessments that are either e-exams or exams for extenuating circumstances purposes (see §xxxxx) for a maximum of 2 consecutive calendar days. Only assessments where a first sit opportunity exists may be eligible. Assessments where self-certification is permitted should be clearly indicated via Moodle/Course handbook. A School must robustly monitor attendance such that self-certification is only allowed for non-attendance at assessments. A student may not self-certify for an e-exam that they have viewed.
When self-certifying absence, all students should read and understand the implications of the University’s Maximum period from initial registration which sets out that stages of study must be completed within a prescribed timeframe.  For more information about the Maximum period from initial registration, please consult the following:
Maximum period from initial registration for completion of studies
The University reserves the right to review the use of self-certification by students and to require evidence for multiple and frequent use of self-certification, for example, more than twice in an academic session (year).
The University holds a reasonable expectation that students will only self-certify their absence from assessments when prevented from attending by circumstances that align with acceptable exceptional circumstances.
Claims which are believed to give fraudulent reasons for absence from the assessment will be investigated under the Academic Misconduct regulation.
4.2.3   Coursework extension without evidence
Not applicable to circumstances relating to modules being undertaken at the UNM or UNNC campuses.
Where a student experiences circumstances which meet all of the criteria set out in the extenuating circumstances regulation (Clause 2) but where evidence is not available, and if the School/Department permits for that assessment, an extenuating circumstance claim may be made without evidence to extend a coursework deadline. Schools/Departments need to inform students if `no evidence’ extensions are not permitted (for example via module handbooks). It is possible for some assessments in a School/Department to be eligible for `no evidence’ extensions and not others.
Unlike a ‘grace period’ there must be an associated circumstance and short term no evidence extension requests may be declined if the circumstances are not considered acceptable. (further explanation of acceptable and unacceptable circumstances can be found in section 4.1.7 above.
The only outcome available in these circumstances is an extension of up to five working days.The extension request should align with the time impacted (e.g. if impacted for 2 working days, then the extension request should not be for more than 2 working days).
If a student requires a different outcome, for example a longer extension, then evidence will be required for this as part of their extenuating circumstance claim.
It is not possible to request a short term no evidence extension to add extra time onto an already upheld evidenced extension. If a second circumstance has occurred following an evidenced extension, then a further extenuating circumstance request can be made and it would require evidence (noting the circumstances around lengths of extensions in coursework outcomes 2 and 3).
It is possible to request an evidenced extension after a short term no evidence extension, for example if the reason turned out to be taking longer to resolve than originally expected or if a second circumstance had occurred. If the request was upheld, the duration of the short term no evidence extension already granted, would be taken into account (for example, if outcome 2 were decided on then the no evidence extension duration plus the evidenced extension duration would not be more than 15 working days).
Coursework assessments with ‘no evidence’ extensions are not eligible for discounting by examination boards for the purposes of calculating either module marks or degree classifications.
The University reserves the right to review the use of ‘no evidence’ extensions by students and to require evidence for multiple and frequent use of ‘no evidence’ extensions, for example, more than twice in an academic session (year).
The University holds a reasonable expectation that students will only use ‘no evidence’ extensions for coursework assessments when prevented from attending by circumstances that align with acceptable exceptional circumstances  (see section 4.1.7 above for more guidance).
Claims which are believed to give fraudulent reasons will be investigated under the Academic Misconduct regulation and procedure.
For more information, please consult the following:
Academic misconduct regulations
4.3 Standard of evidence
4.3.1
Independent, reliable documentary evidence is normally required to accompany an extenuating circumstance claim. The exceptions are:
When the student is making a  self-certification claim for an examination,
For coursework extensions of up to five working days, unless the School/Department has explicitly told students (e.g. in the module handbook) that that is not permitted for a given assessment.
4.3.2
The burden of proof to support a claim lies with the student at all times.
4.3.3
Evidence presented by students must meet the following standards and should:
(a) Where written by appropriately qualified professionals who are independent of the student, be on headed paper and signed and dated by the author. Evidence presented by email may be acceptable if the email has been sent by the author from the official domain name of the author's organisation.  Students should note that the Cripps Health Centre and the University Counselling Service in the UK or UNNC Health and Wellbeing Centre will be unlikely to provide such confirmation if the student has had no engagement with the service(s) prior to the affected assessment(s).
(b) Confirm specifically that the circumstances were witnessed on the relevant date as opposed to being reported retrospectively. Evidence reported by the author as being informed retrospectively about the circumstances will not be acceptable evidence.
(c) Be in English. It is the student's responsibility to provide supporting documentation and any translation should be undertaken by an accredited translator (e.g. be a member of the Association of Translation Companies (UNUK), or an accredited translator from a qualified translation institution (UNNC). Any associated costs must be met by the student.
(d) Be unaltered by the student.  Documentation that has been amended for any reason will be deemed inadmissible by the University and may be subject to investigation under the Academic Misconduct Procedure (UNUK, UNM, UNNC).
4.3.4
Schools/Departments could also consider evidence supplied by other members of staff known to the student, for example, Personal Tutors, Support and Wellbeing Officers or Hall Wardens.  It is not possible for University staff to give evidence for medical conditions.
People in these roles should only provide supporting evidence if:
The student has engaged with them sufficiently prior to the affected assessment(s) such that they are fully conversant with their situation.  Retrospective information is not permitted as evidence.
They are satisfied that there will have been an adverse impact on the student’s ability to study and/or take assessments.
The student does not require medical/professional treatment for their circumstances.
4.3.5
The University reserves the right to take such steps as are deemed necessary to verify the evidence submitted, without prior notification.  Where the University is unable to authenticate the material to its satisfaction, the claim may not be accepted. The University reserves the right to request sight of original documents, if necessary.  If there is evidence that a student has fraudulently presented documentation to the University the matter will usually be referred for consideration under the University’s Academic Misconduct regulations (UNUK, UNM, UNNC).
4.3.6
The following table offers examples of the associated evidence that is normally required to accompany acceptable circumstances (noting the exceptions in clause 4.3.1). These are given without prejudice and for general guidance; it is not exhaustive, definitive, or prescriptive. Due regard should be given to the reasonableness and proportionality of the outcome in determining what is and is not acceptable evidence.
Acceptable circumstances - Associated evidence
Circumstance
Evidence
Illness
Printouts from the NHS app which attest to the circumstances claimed in the form.
Where possible, a letter from an appropriate medical professional or statement from the University Counselling Service (or equivalent) confirming the nature of the illness and the likely impact it is having on the student's ability to undertake formal assessment and/or study. This includes medical certificates supplied by online doctors, provided that they are UK based and CQC-regulated.
China specific requirements:
A letter of medical diagnosis issued by appropriate medical professional at AA or AA+ hospital in China (or equivalent) or statement from the
UNNC Health and Wellbeing Centre
confirming the nature of the illness and the likely impact it is having on the student’s ability to undertake formal assessment and/or study. The diagnosis letter should be issued in letterhead and stamped by the hospital as deemed official.  Medical certificates supplied by online doctors are not acceptable.
Hospitalisation/
acute injury
Discharge notes.
A medical letter/certificate from the relevant hospital confirming the nature of the student's circumstances.
Letter of appointment for a specialist consultation, investigation or outpatient treatment.
Students should not need to visit a Health Centre to provide medical certification when they have an obvious physical injury. Corroboration, such as a note from a hospital casualty department, or from a tutor who has seen the injury, would normally be sufficient. Examples of obvious physical injury could include plaster casts or metal pins supporting broken bones.
China specific requirements:
A discharge report issued by appropriate medical professional at AA or AA+ hospital in China (or equivalent) confirming the nature of the student’s circumstances , the period of hospitalisation and likely impact it may have on the student’s ability to undertake formal assessment and/or study. The discharge report issued in letterhead and stamped by the hospital as deemed official.
Family illness
A medical certificate/letter from a medical professional confirming the nature and severity of the family circumstances.
Aforementioned China specific requirements would apply.
Bereavement
A death certificate
or
a letter confirming the death from an independent person (usually not a family member) Evidence from a hospital Family Bereavement Centre, or equivalent.
Where these are not available, an order of service from the funeral.
It is recognised that these levels of evidence are not always possible.  Schools are permitted to use their discretion (e.g. tutor statement).
IT and/or computer failure during e
-
examinations
Screen shots of the issue which demonstrate the timing and the longevity of the issue.
Where relevant, a statement of disrupted service from an internet provider.
Acute personal/
emotional circumstances
An original medical certificate or letter from an appropriate medical professional or a letter from the University Counselling Service (or equivalent) confirming a list of counselling session attended dates.
Aforementioned China specific requirements would apply.
If extenuating circumstance panels require further information, please contact the counselling service directly. It is unlikely that evidence will be given if there has been limited or no recent engagement with the service.
Pregnancy
Medical documentation and/or supporting letter from personal tutor, depending on the circumstances.
Victim of crime
A written statement of events which is supported by written evidence from the Police (including a crime reference number).
Where the impact of the crime has led to a medical or other professional consultation, an original medical certificate or letter from an appropriate medical professional or a letter from the University Counselling Service (or equivalent) confirming the likely impact the reported crime had/is having on the student's ability to undertake formal assessment and/or study.
For extreme circumstances (e.g. domestic or sexual abuse) it may be that a supporting letter from the personal tutor is appropriate evidence.
Domestic disruption
Where significant and unforeseen domestic disruption has occurred very close to a timetabled examination a letter from an appropriate independent individual/authority detailing the relevant circumstances and an indication of the likely impact with their contact details provided.
Representing the University at a national event or involvement in some other significant/ prestigious event
A letter of confirmation from the relevant organising body (or from their website) and a supporting statement from the student explaining why the event should be considered as significant/prestigious and the reason(s) why they are required to be absent from University.
For applications under the High Performing Athlete policy, a letter from the coach or personal tutor may be appropriate evidence.
Jury service (UK)
A letter from the Court together with proof that a deferral has been requested and rejected or proof that a previous request for deferral has been accepted.
Court attendance (UK)
Where a student is required to attend a tribunal or court as a witness, defendant (see ‘Criminal Conviction’, Unacceptable Circumstances) or plaintiff the student should provide official correspondence from the tribunal/court confirming attendance or a solicitor’s letter detailing the nature and dates of the legal proceedings and the requirement for the student to attend.
4.4 Outcome Recommendations for EC Panels
4.4.1   Core considerations
The full range of recommendations open to a Panel are detailed below.
An extenuating circumstances panel cannot change marks; marks or classifications can only be altered by reassessment or the setting aside of a module or element of a module when computing a mark or classification.
Panels should always first consider allowing a student an additional attempt as opposed to disregarding of elements or modules, making this latter recommendation only when additional attempts are not possible or are undesirable.
If a student’s Extenuating Circumstance claim for an exam is upheld, the extenuating circumstance outcome awarded will not be optional.  That is, if the student is granted another attempt at that assessment, the student will need to take that assessment as the original (affected) assessment will not be marked or the mark not released to the student.
If the student does not undertake the additional attempt granted by the extenuating circumsntances request, they would be given zero for non-attendance at the exam.  Students will need to decide before submitting the extenuating circumstance claim whether they have been impacted.  It will not normally be possible to decide on an outcome after assessment marks are released, and such circumstances would require an exceptional case to QSC for approval.
If a student has made multiple extenuating circumstances claims, or perhaps extended study for other reasons (e.g. Voluntary Interruption of Study), a further extension or attempt at an examination may take the student over the maximum period for stage or registration.  In such circumstances the extenuating circumstances panel must submit an Exceptional Case to the Quality and Standards Committee to seek an extension to the stage or registration (as appropriate) prior to sending a decision to the student for the extenuating circumstances claim.  The panel will need to consider currency of learning, previous extensions and impact on the student in making the case.  If this is approved, then a decision on the extenuating circumstance can be sent to the student.
An extenuating circumstances panel may not make a recommendation which would change a penalty for academic misconduct imposed by a School, Department or an Academic Misconduct Committee e.g., a first sit cannot be offered for an assessment for which a penalty has been imposed.  If an extenuating circumstances panel makes a recommendation before the academic misconduct is detected, the academic misconduct finding will void a recommendation made by an extenuating circumstances panel.
4.4.2   Extenuating circumstances outcomes
Panels can determine one of the outcomes below:
1. The claim is not approved:
i. because the grounds are not acceptable within the University’s extenuating circumstances regulation.
ii. due to insufficient evidence. This would include, for example, evidence that does not cover the relevant period; is not from an approved source; is insufficient to support the claim of seriousness of impact, or is not provided within the required timeframe
iii. an extension or further attempt would take the student over the maximum period for stage or from initial registration, and an extension to this has not been approved.
2. Where a School/Department permits for a given assessment, the claim is approved without evidence, because there are sufficient grounds for believing that the student’s ability to study and/or perform in the relevant assessment(s) has been adversely affected.
3. The claim is approved, and sufficient evidence has been provided, because there are sufficient grounds for believing that the student’s ability to study and/or perform in the relevant assessment(s) has been adversely affected.
For students in their final year of study who have attempted and passed an assessment but have made a claim on the basis of affected performance, Schools/Departments may also list the following outcome:
4. The claim is provisionally approved, and sufficient evidence has been provided, but a final decision on the outcome and any recommendations will be deferred to a meeting of the extenuating circumstances panel at the end of the academic session when the full impact can be assessed.
4.4.3   Potential recommendations
If approved, the extenuating circumstances panel may make one or more of the following recommendations to the relevant Board of Examiners:
For Undergraduate students, Postgraduate students on taught programmes and Postgraduate Research students undertaking taught modules:
Recommendations for coursework:
1. Where the extenuating circumstances claim does not include evidence, and if permitted by the School/Department for the given assessment, grant an extension to the deadline set for a submission of up to 5 working days, taking into account other deadlines that the student has to meet. Students should be informed of any change to the timescale for the return of coursework and associated feedback in accordance with the Policy on Feedback to Students.
For more information, please consult the following:
Policy on Feedback to students
2. Where the extenuating circumstances claim includes sufficient evidence, grant an extension to the deadline set for a submission of up to 15 working days, taking into account other deadlines that the student has to meet. This should consider any support plan extensions for the same piece of work.  The two would be additive where the circumstances were distinct and where the timelines of the circumstances warranted this.  If that coursework has had previous extenuating circumstance extensions, the extenuating circumstances panels should take those into account (i.e. extensions on the same assignment would usually get progressively shorter).  Students should be informed of any change to the timescale for the return of coursework and associated feedback in accordance with the Policy on Feedback to Students.
For more information, please consult the following:
Policy on Feedback to students
3a. A student needing more than 15 working days of extension (due to an extenuating circumstance claim) is regarded as having been subject to serious circumstances that have impacted their work. To avoid on-going disruption to their studies, they will be required to submit their work in the resit period (or the School equivalent of this).
3b. For a student needing more than 15 working days of extension (due to an EC claim) AND where a new assignment is required in the reassessment period, the panel may grant a first sit oppertunity.
The options available for both coursework and exams below are also available.
For exams:
4a. For self-certification (i.e. without evidence) in the case of a first attempt, the only outcome available is to allow a further attempt as an equivalent sit  for which the mark gained will, subject to section 4(d)  of the Assessment Regulations and relevant Progression regulations (with or without attendance), count as the student’s first mark and therefore towards an award if relevant in the affected assessment(s). Note, the original assessment will not be marked/mark not released.  To not attend the further assessment would result in a mark of zero.
For more information, please consult the following:
Assessment regulations
4b. For self-certification (i.e. without evidence) in the case of a reassessment, the only outcome available is to allow an additional attempt at the examination or coursework (at the same or equivalent assessment), in accordance with the relevant Progression regulations (with or without attendance).
5a. For claims for short-term adjustments, grant a short-term arrangement that will be put in place for any in-person exams for the next assessment period (the outcome letter should expand on what this arrangement is). This is a temporary arrangement that will expire at the end of this assessment period.
5b.  For claims for short-term adjustments, where there is insufficient time to make the arrangement for this assessment period, grant the student more time and/or rest breaks for any in-person exams for the next assessment period (the outcome letter should expand on what this arrangement is). This is a temporary arrangement that will expire at the end of this assessment period.
5c. For claims for short-term adjustments, where there is insufficient time to make the arrangement for this assessment period, both of the above outcomes (clauses 1a and 1b) are available.
6. For extenuating circumstance claims for exams with sufficient evidence, both of the above outcomes (clauses 1a and 1b) are available plus all of the outcomes listed below.
The options available for both coursework and exams below are also available.
For coursework and exams
7. Recommend a different form of re-assessment, as determined by the School/Department, if the same or equivalent of the original is no longer possible, to assess whether the learning outcomes are achieved. Students have no automatic right to individual assessment of this nature. Approval from QSC will be required if this is outside regulation.
8. Disregard an element of a module assessment and re-compute module mark based on completed components subject to regulation 6 of the Assessment Regulations (subject to PSRB requirements).
For more information, please consult the following:
Assessment regulations
9. Offer the student a repeat period of study and assessment (for which tuition fees will be payable) subject to this being an option supported by any sponsor, immigration legislation or legal obligation and to the University’s policy on Maximum Period from Initial Registration.
For more information, please consult the following:
Student status changes and implications for your student visa
Maximum period from initial registration for completion of studies
10. In the case of final year students (this includes the taught stage for PGT students) when a further attempt at the assessment has not been possible before the relevant Examination Board is due to meet, disregard marks for specific affected module(s) to a maximum of 20 total credits across affected modules in computing the classification or credit weighted average for the final stage, subject to the provisions of the Regulations for Undergraduate, Taught Masters, Postgraduate Diploma and Postgraduate Certificate courses. Whilst a first attempt at the assessment must usually have been made for this option to be recommended, Section 6a of the Assessment Regulations should be taken into consideration at this point. The recommendation may only be applied at the end of the final year once the full marks profile is available, and is subject to PSRB requirements.  If a further first attempt has been offered earlier in the year as a result of an extenuating circumstances claim and it has not been possible for the student to undertake the assessment before the meeting of the Examination Board, the application of this recommendation may still be considered.
For more information, please consult the following:
Academic regulations
Assessment regulations
11. When a student has experienced circumstances affecting their ability to study/take assessments in their final year of study, such that their final year performance is deemed unrepresentative of their academic profile, recommend that a case be made to QSC to for the purposes of recommending a degree classification outside regulations based on performance in earlier years.  This recommendation should only be used in exceptional circumstances for cases where there is no prospect of the student undertaking first attempts within a reasonable period of time, for example, in the case of chronic or terminal illness of the student or the dependent of a student.
Where options 5, 6, 7 or 8 have been applied no further consideration of the circumstances will take place at an Examination Board.  For instance, where the School has offered a first attempt but the student does not take that opportunity, the circumstances will not be taken into account at the final Examination Board.
For Postgraduate Research students at any stage of study the extenuating circumstances panel may:
either
(a) Grant an extension to the date set for the submission of the Progression Review report
or
(b) Grant an extension to the date set for the progression review meeting
or
(c) If circumstances occur that mean the progression review meeting cannot be completed, permit the PGR to undertake a further Progression Review as a First Sit.
4.4.4
Additional recommendations
Extenuating circumstances panels may also or alternatively make recommendations in response to an extenuating circumstances claim. Recommendations may include, but are not limited to:
a student is advised to attend a meeting with their Personal Tutor, the School Postgraduate Student Advisor (SPSA) and a Support and Wellbeing Officer (UNUK) or School Senior Tutor (UNNC) to consider the support options available, including the possibility of a voluntary interruption of study;
a student is advised to seek support from relevant support services, e.g. Counselling Service, Disability/Academic Support.
referral to the University’s Occupational Health Service (UNUK) or Health and Wellbeing Centre (UNNC).
For more information, please consult the following:
Voluntary interruption of study
Should a student fail to seek appropriate support following a recommendation from an extenuating circumstances panel, further claims made due to similar circumstances may be rejected.
Where students have a further attempt at an assessment for to an upheld extenuating circumstance, Schools/Departments can make a case to QSC to request a different form of re-assessment to assess whether the learning outcomes are achieved if the same or equivalent of the original is no longer possible.
4.5 Withdrawal of Extenuating Circumstances claims
Where the conditions for a claim for Extenuating Circumstances no longer exist (e.g., cancelled jury service, recovery from illness or injury), or a student believes their performance in the assessment for which they requested the EC would no longer be strongly impacted, it is possible in some cases for the student to withdraw their EC claim, subject to the following conditions. These apply whether or not the student has received an outcome for the EC claim.
No EC claim may be withdrawn after the mark for that assessment has been released to the student.
An EC claim that is subject to Academic Misconduct investigation may not be withdrawn.
4.5.1 Coursework EC Claims
All coursework EC claims may be withdrawn prior to the original coursework deadline. If a coursework EC claim is withdrawn, the usual lateness penalties will apply where the coursework is handed in after the original deadline.
4.5.2 Exam EC Claim Withdrawal
All Exam EC claims may be withdrawn prior to the scheduled time of the Examination.
An Exam EC claim may also be withdrawn up to 5 working days after the Exam, provided the mark has not been released to the student.
4.5.3 Procedure for EC Claim Withdrawal
Requests to withdraw EC claims should be submitted via the ‘Ask a question’ option in the Student Enquiry Centre portal.
5. Related policies
Policy on circumstances affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments
6. Related procedures
Extenuating Circumstances procedure
University of Nottingham Online Extenuating Circumstances Regulation
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 September 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/school-examinations-officer-role.aspx
Header: School Examinations Officer role
Intro: This page sets out the role and duties of a School Examinations Officer. This information is primarily directed at role-holders and Schools but may also be of interest to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
School Examinations Officer role - The University of NottinghamSchool Examinations Officer role
This page sets out the role and duties of a School Examinations Officer. This information is primarily directed at role-holders and Schools but may also be of interest to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.School Examinations Officer Role
Includes:
School responsibilities; specific duties; key documentation; Registry and Academic Affairs  UNUK, Academic Services Office UNNC, Student Registry Office - Exams and Assessent Team UNM
Schools must have detailed procedures to ensure effective operation of assessments and exams. It is essential to define clearly the responsibilities of individuals and deadline dates. The procedure must cover:
The setting of examination papers, to ensure that examination papers (and marking schemes) are set, internally moderated, vetted by the external examiner (with appropriate changes made), printed and proof read at the appropriate time.
The marking of exam scripts and the processing of marks; to ensure that exam scripts are marked anonymously with appropriate checking of completeness and of marks addition, as well as undertaking al necessary moderation of marks. Similarly, the marks lists used by Boards of Examiners must be checked for accuracy.
The specific duties of a School Examinations Officer (or in the case of taught postgraduate examinations, the Examinations Officer for a particular taught postgraduate course), which may be one or multiple people, will depend on the organisational structure within the School. The School Examinations Officer, or delegates, will normally incorporate:
Exam delivery facilitation including:
Coordinate the production of draft examination papers by module convenors for examinations in each semester with the production of the resit papers for resit examinations at the same time.
Liaise with the External Examiner(s) to obtain feedback on the draft examinations papers, and to supply External Examiner(s) with relevant examples of student examination scripts and coursework, marks lists etc.
Co-ordinate with RAA the production of final “camera ready copy” versions of the examinations papers to the approved university template (together with any additional special handout material). These originals are then passed to the Examinations Office for reproduction. Deadlines for submission of papers to the Examinations Office are circulated in advance. For specific information on the production of examination papers, please consult the following:
Exam rubric information including dictionaries, calculators, MCQ and Open Books
Exam template from 2024/25
Liaise with the University’s Examinations Office for Undergraduate examinations and Taught Postgraduate examinations as appropriate, to provide timely scheduling information to allow the production of an examinations timetable.
Liaise with the University’s Examinations Office regarding the examination arrangements for students with alternative exam arrangements. There is a formal procedure involving assessment of the student’s needs by the University’s Disability Support Service. All students must be assessed before the deadline for alternative examination arrangements to be implemented in advance of the next examination period.
Marks processing and Exam Board facilitation including:
Receive marksheets generated by Campus Solutions. Ensure completed marksheets are returned to the appropriate assessment team for uploading into Campus Solutions by published deadlines to enable the production of marks lists for use by School Boards of Examiners, and Taught Postgraduate Course Boards in the case of Taught Postgraduate degrees.
Bring Extenuating Circumstances and/or Fitness to Practice and/or Academic Misconduct outcomes to the attention of the School Board of Examiners and Taught Postgraduate Course Boards in the case of Taught Postgraduate degrees.
In addition, please provide Registry and Academic Affairs UNUK, Academic Services Office UNNC or Student Registry Office - Exams and Assessment team UNM with:
Decisions from the School Examination Board for certificates, diplomas and final degrees, including a full profile of confirmed marks which contributed towards that award.
Decisions from the School Examination Board regarding course termination, progression, 'first sits', repeat study and reassessment entitlements, including the format of all assessment (e.g. examination, coursework etc) for candidates who have a further assessment opportunity.
The evidence used by the School Examination Board when submitting decisions on a student's final degree classification under regulation 26 of the Regulations for Undergraduate Courses and regulation 22 (b) of the Regulations for Taught Masters Degrees, Postgraduate Diplomas and Postgraduate Certificate Courses.
For more information about the University's academic regulations, please consult the following:
Academic regulations
Additional requirements
Includes:
external or later sittings; clarity of procedures; reassessment details and notification
Collaborate with Registry and Academic Affairs UNUK, Academic Services Office UNNC or Student Registry Office – Assessment Team UNM to ensure data on reassessments and first sits have been accurately imported into Campus Solutions prior to such information being made available to students.
Examinations Officers should also provide students with:
Coursework requirements for modules which can be taken either externally or over the summer to those students who have the opportunity of further assessment, irrespective of the student's home School;
In liaison with EC panels and/or DLOs, clear and unambiguous submission procedures for coursework extensions (including appropriate dates);
Please be aware that during academic year 2019/20, the University introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. This page was previously affected by these arrangements and has been documented accordingly.
Further details can be found in the "Exceptional regulations applied in response to Covid-19" section below.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/pol-marking-and-grading.aspx
Header: Policy on marking and grading
Intro: This page contains the University's policy on marking and grading. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Policy on marking and grading - The University of NottinghamPolicy on marking and grading
This page contains the University's policy on marking and grading. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1.0 Purpose - Overview of assessment policies and procedures
Includes:
assessment process
Quality assurance of assessment consists of several elements. These can be distinguished according to the different stages of the assessment process at which they operate:
Pre-assessment activities (including guidance for students and markers about the assessment activity; scrutiny of the assessment activity by internal or external examiners; calibration of standards among markers)
The assessment itself (including measures to assure the fairness of assessment conditions, such as invigilation, appropriate adjustments for students with support plans, and external review of exam papers)
Marking (including use of clear standards,  anonymity of marking, and double marking where appropriate)
Internal Moderation (checking that standards have been applied consistently during marking)
Marks adjustment (adjustment of marks in light of a flaw in the assessment to maintain standards across cohorts)
Scrutiny by External Examiners
Approval of marks by Exam Board
The appropriate combination of these elements of quality assurance will vary by discipline and assessment task, so some variation in practice between Schools is to be expected and not all elements will be appropriate to all assessments. Further information regarding moderation and marks adjustment can be found below.
2.0 Key Principles
2.1 Internal and external examiners
Includes:
Postgraduate students with teaching responsibilities; responsibilities of Head of School
All assessments for programmes and modules leading to a University award must involve both one or more internal examiners and one or more independent external examiners. In addition, all members of academic staff will act as internal examiners in the subjects in their School.
The University of Nottingham policy on the appointment and responsibilities of External Examiners can be found online, and is linked below.
The School has a duty to ensure that any individuals acting as internal examiners who are not academic staff of the University, are fully briefed and have relevant experience and sufficient knowledge of their subject area to assess students' knowledge and skills. For more information, please consult the Policy on occasional teachers linked below.
Postgraduate students with teaching responsibilities may also act as internal examiners. For more information, please consult the Policy on University of Nottingham students who teach.
In respect of any assessment carried out by postgraduate students with teaching responsibilities, Heads of School must ensure that:
They are supervised by a named member of academic staff
They are provided with training appropriate to their role in the assessment process
Assessments that contribute to the final module/programme mark:
1.
Are moderated by a member of academic staff
2.
Are limited, as far as practicable, to those elements of assessment that do not contribute to the degree classification
Such assessments which do not contribute to the final module/programme mark are second marked where appropriate on a sampling basis by a member of academic staff.
Students must be informed by their School when and how they will receive results and the various stages of the process of distributing results.
2.1.1 lndependent Assessors for Apprenticeship Programmes
Where a specific integrated apprenticeship programme’s End-Point Assessment plan makes references to other specified assessment roles within the marking and assessment team arrangements, the responsibilities noted below apply to all defined roles within that team.
On integrated apprenticeship programmes the End-Point Assessment serves as a final credit bearing module for the degree. It also constitutes the summative assessment for the apprenticeship award. Each specific End-Point Assessment plan outlines the final classification criteria for the apprenticeship award. Thus assessment of this module will need to meet the requirements of the published apprenticeship End-Point Assessment plan in addition to contributing to the degree award.
The Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education (IfATE) prescribes that the assessment of the End-Point Assessment is performed by suitably qualified Independent Assessors. These are appointed internally or externally and they will provide the grade for the overall outcome for the apprenticeship award. Dependent on the programme, the grade to contribute to the degree award may also be provided by the Independent Assessor/s, and thus may not be a member of University staff who is involved in the programme.
2.2 Marking criteria
Includes:
role of School Boards; requirements of the School; Marking criteria examples; double-marking
It is recognised that there is a need for School Boards to conduct the assessment of students in a manner that is appropriate to individual disciplines and to the methods of assessment employed.
All Schools are required to have written marking criteria across the full range of marks available (0-100) which is published in School Handbooks. Marking criteria must include categories from 70% to 100% and 0% to 40%. Marking advice must be available to markers in relation to all forms of assessment used within the School/Department.
The School's marking criteria must be signposted in its programme specifications (Section C. Supplementary Regulations, 3. Assessment).
In pursuit of assessment practices that are fair, valid and reliable the University recognises double-marking (preferably "blind" where the first mark is not made known to the second marker) as good practice for all assessments where appropriate.
For apprenticeship programmes, to meet requirements outlined by the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education (IfATE), the criteria outlined in the specific End-Point Assessment plan for each apprenticeship standard must be followed. For more information please visit the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education website, via the link below.
Permitted differences to local School policy on marking criteria may be required, for example providing acceptable tolerances in assessment word count.
2.3 Moderation
Includes:
role of
external examiners; sample size; moderation assessment report form
Moderation is the process of checking that standards have been applied correctly and consistently during the marking of an assessment. It is distinct from marking (including double marking) and from marks adjustment. Unlike double marking, moderation must not result in a change to the mark awarded to just one student; any changes to marks following moderation must be applied systematically to all affected students taking the assessment (e.g. all students who answered a given question). Unlike marks adjustment, moderation examines the application of standards to a unit of assessment, and does not compare marks across different cohorts.
Moderation is also distinct from the scrutiny of assessment by External Examiners. External Examiners will not be involved in the marking process as their role is to ensure that policies and regulations have been appropriately applied, that the assessment process is fair and robust and to ensure that standards applied are consistent with subject benchmark statements and other institutions.
All assessments that contribute to the determination or classification of an award must have been subject to moderation. Moderation must have been conducted by someone other than the first marker.
An absolute minimum number of student submissions for each assessment must be reviewed by the moderator. That number is determined by the number of students registered to take the assessment as follows:
Submissions to be included in moderation sample
Number of students registered to take assessment, N
Minimum number of submissions to be included in moderation sample, M
1-100
5
101-400
N/20 (i.e. 5% of submissions)
>400
20
Schools must decide for themselves the appropriate sample size for moderation for each assessment and it is expected that this will often exceed the minimum. This decision is based on the nature of the assessment, its weighting (i.e. number of credits), the number of first markers and their level of experience.
Sampling for moderation must be random but should include at least one submission from each mark range (where they exist): 0-39, 40-49, 50-59, 60-69, 70-100.
Schools must have a clear and explicit written policy governing the moderation of marking which should be available to students (for example via School handbooks and School Community Moodle pages). All markers in a School must be clearly briefed on these processes each academic year.
These processes must specify:
What proportion of work is sampled during moderation for each type of assessment (subject to the above minimum)
Whether the sample must include work of certain kinds (e.g. whether special attention is paid to work marked as borderline)
What should happen if a moderator believes that standards have not been applied correctly
Schools must have a uniform system for fully recording the process of moderation so that examiners can clearly understand how moderation has occurred and what consequences have arisen from it. These records must be available to External Examiners as soon as possible and be tabled at relevant Examination Boards. An example of such a system is provided below from the Faculty of Arts:
For apprenticeship programmes, moderation will be in line with School policy, unless there are alternative requirements specific to the End-Point Assessment module. Moderation of this module will be undertaken by the appointed Independent Assessors or by internal staff who are independent of prior teaching. This will be determined and arranged locally.
2.4 Marks adjustment
Includes:
role of external examiners; Report form for the use of marks adjustment
A School is expected to consider data regarding marks on modules for which it has responsibility (for example, median mark and variance for each module) to identify possible issues with the delivery and assessment of the module prior to the Exam Board. Normally this analysis would also be taken into account in the School’s regular review of modules.
Where there has been a clear flaw in the assessment process (e.g. mistakes on a question paper), Schools have a responsibility to ensure that this does not have a significant impact on the fairness or robustness of the final marks. Where such a flaw is identified Schools should develop a suitable adjustment to be applied to all marks and report this to the External Examiners.
Where no potential flaws have been identified the summary report form linked below must be completed.
Where potential flaws have been identified by markers, reported by students or may come to light because of comparison of marks profiles (e.g. comparison of median mark and variance) with other modules taken by the same cohort or with the same module taken by previous cohorts, the marks adjustment report for the affected module(s) must be completed, linked in section 5 below.
Review and sign off of the marks adjustment form (including nil returns) must take place at the Exam Board. Any approved adjustment and its rationale must then be communicated clearly to all students who took the module (normally via the module feedback report) and communicated to Quality and Student Management Systems Team (within Registry and Academic Affairs) for report to Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) using the forms below.
The module level information report must detail the rationale for marks adjustment; the method used; the method used to inform students; and any remedial measures implemented as a result of marks adjustment.  These forms must be appended to the summary form submitted. A separate report form should be used for each module where marks have been subject to adjustment. Schools are expected to submit an annual report even if there is a nil return. Where there is a nil return a single summary form must be used.
For more information, please email:
ss-qsc-cases@nottingham.ac.uk
Reports must be submitted at the same time as the main Examination Board recommendations in June/July (Undergraduate programmes) and by November (Postgraduate Taught programmes).
2.5 Viva Voce examinations
Viva voce examinations may only be used as part of a documented assessment procedure and must not be used as part of the consideration of borderline candidates or in the final decision making process.
The only exception to this is where an external body requires that a Viva Voce examination is held as a separate assessment forming part of the decision-making process. In such a case the School must publish a written policy that must be included in the student handbook or otherwise drawn to the attention of students. This must address the following issues:
The name of the body that requires the viva voce examination to take place
The role of the viva in the assessment/classification process
Who has the authority to call a student for a viva
Selection criteria
Whether attendance is compulsory or voluntary
Notice given to a student
Procedures followed and documents produced
Whether a student can request a viva
Formal records of all such vivas must be kept.
Schools are encouraged to organise meetings for external examiners with representative groups of students as a mechanism for ensuring quality and standards control but this should not form part of the assessment process.
2.6 Penalties and legibility
2.6.1 Penalties
University policy on penalties for late submission of assessed coursework can be found online and linked below.
2.6.2 Legibility
University policy on legibility of work submitted for assessment can be found online. For more information, please consult the information linked below:
2.7 Anonymous marking
Includes:
marking by numbers
For formal written examinations the University operates a marking by numbers (or anonymous marking) system. For more information about the marking by number system, please consult the Marking by Number page.
Schools must also ensure that coursework is anonymous at the time of marking where this is possible and appropriate for the educational aims
Schools must ensure that clear statements of the responsibilities of those involved in computation, checking and recording of assessment data exist.
2.8 Rounding
Includes:
degree classification; progression
2.8.1 Degree Classification
For the purposes of classifying undergraduate degrees, marks will be rounded at the stages detailed under Degree Classification for each individual module.
The University convention on rounding of numeric marks for all awards is as follows:
Marks must be rounded at two stages only:
When two or more unit marks are computed (using a weighting formula), the result should be rounded into a single integer module mark
When the overall weighted average mark has been computed, it should be rounded into a single overall integer mark, before a classification is assigned.
Rounding means that any mark of x.5 and decimal fractions above, becomes the next highest integer e.g. 69.5 is rounded to 70, 59.5 to 60, and so on. Decimal fractions below x.5 are rounded to the next lowest integer - for example, 69.4 is rounded to 69. For the purposes of rounding, the mark should be truncated and only the first decimal place is used (e.g. 69.45 becomes 69.4, which is rounded to 69).
Following the rounding convention set out above, overall marks of 39.5, 49.5, 59.5, and 69.5 will be rounded to 40, 50, 60 & 70 respectively.
2.8.2 Progression
For the purposes of progression, overall average marks will be rounded to the nearest integer so that marks of 29.5, 39.5 and 49.5 will be rounded to 30, 40 and 50 respectively. Decimal fractions below x.5 are rounded to the next lowest integer - for example, 69.4 is rounded to 69. For the purposes of rounding, the mark should be truncated and only the first decimal place is used (e.g. 69.45 becomes 69.4, which is rounded to 69).
3.0 Related regulations, policies and procedures
Policy on occasional teachers
Policy on University of Nottingham students who teach
Appointment and responsibilities of External Examiners
Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education
Policy on penalties for late submission of assessed work
Legibility of work submitted for assessment
Marking by number
For examples of marking criteria, please consult the following:
Marking criteria examples
Example moderation sysutem from the Faculty of Arts
Moderation assessment report form
Summary Mark Adjustment form (where no adjustment is needed)
Summary marks adjustment form
Marks Adjustment form (when adjustment is needed)
Module level marks adjustment form
4.0 Version control table
Version control table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework based on content last modified on 23rd October 2023 and updated anonymous marking regulation.
QSC
August 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
20 August 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/concerns-complaints-and-appeals/academic-appeals-cop.aspx
Header: Academic Appeals Code of Practice
Intro: This page contains the University's academic appeals code of practice. It is applicable to staff and students from the UK campuses only.
Content:
Academic Appeals Code of Practice - The University of NottinghamAcademic Appeals Code of Practice
This page contains the University's academic appeals code of practice. It is applicable to staff and students from the UK campuses only.1. Purpose
This code of practice provides information about the principles and approach that must be followed by students and staff when students wish to raise an academic appeal. It explains when a student has a right to make an appeal and the grounds under which appeals can be considered, provides information about each stage of the process, sets out expectations of those involved in submitting and responding to appeals, and provides details of the expected timescales. It also signposts students to the support available throughout the process and provides information about how to request adjustments to enable them to access the process fully.
The Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA) is an independent body which runs a student complaints scheme for England and Wales, in line with the requirements of the Higher Education Act 2004. The University of Nottingham is a member of this scheme and this code has therefore been written in accordance with the
OIA’s Good Practice Framework
for the handling of appeals.
2. Scope
2.1 Who does this code apply to?
The content of this code of practice is applicable to staff and students across the UK campuses. Details of who is considered a student under this procedure are in section 2.3 of this code.
For students and staff studying or working at University of Nottingham Ningbo China or University of Nottingham Malaysia, please consult the information on the relevant webpages:
University of Nottingham Ningbo China – academic appeals
University of Nottingham Malaysia – academic appeals
2.2 Definitions
Academic appeal
For the purposes of this code, the university has adopted the definition used by the OIA, which is “a request for a review of a decision of an academic body charged with making decisions on student progress, assessment and awards.”
School/department
Where references are made to a school/department, this is taken to mean any area within the university which is most appropriately placed to provide information and/or a response to a student’s appeal.
Revised recommendation
Where references are made to a revised recommendation/upheld decision, this means a recommendation which revises an earlier decision of an academic body at the university charged with making decisions on assessment, progression and awards.
Fully registered
An individual who has completed the registration requirements set out by the university. Details of the registration steps required are detailed on the
registration webpages
.
2.3 Who can use this code of practice?
For the purposes of this code of practice, a student is:
An individual who is a current fully registered student of the university, or
An individual who has previously been fully registered as a student of the university.
This code of practice applies to students on both taught and research courses.
Students who are studying away from their home campus, for example on exchange to another University of Nottingham campus, should refer to the academic appeals code of practice/policy and procedure which applies to the campus where the issues they wish to raise have occurred.
Any individual who is eligible to use this code (as outlined above) must submit their appeal within the timescales outlined in section 4.2 of this code.
The academic appeals process only considers appeals relating to decisions outlined in section 2.4 of this code. A student who has had their registration suspended by the university for other reasons and wishes to contest this decision should raise this via the appeals route for the policy/procedure under which the suspension was made (for example, the Student Code of Conduct) or where such an appeal route is not provided, via the student complaints process.
A group of students may use this code of practice to make a group appeal, though it is normally the case that an individual appeal will allow for more appropriate consideration of a student’s particular circumstances. To raise a group appeal, one student must be identified as the main contact and have written consent from all others that wish to be named as part of the appeal. A group appeal can only be considered if all students named in the appeal are appealing on the same right and grounds and are seeking the same outcome. The Investigations and Resolution team will determine whether it is possible to consider a group appeal or whether cases submitted as a group appeal should be considered individually. If a student is aware that a group appeal is being raised but does not wish to be part of it, they can submit an individual appeal if they wish to do so.
Anyone wishing to make an appeal is usually expected to do so themselves, unless they are part of a group appeal as detailed above.
The Policy on Communications with Third Parties
applies to the academic appeals process. It provides information about circumstances in which a student may request for a third-party (such as a family member or friend) to represent them.
Anonymous appeals will not be considered. Raising an appeal anonymously would prevent investigation of the circumstances raised in the appeal as well as communication and implementation of the outcome.
2.4 Which decisions provide the right to appeal under this code?
Students have the right to appeal against the following final decisions of an academic body charged with making decisions on assessment, progression and awards:
(a)
The conditions imposed and/or the requirement to take reassessments to progress to the next stage of a taught course or phase of research study.
(b)
A decision to terminate a student's current programme of study without an alternative lower qualification being awarded. This includes students whose programme of study is terminated but who are offered a transfer to another taught course or research degree.
(c)
A classification decision. This includes appeals against the class of honours degree awarded and the classification of other undergraduate and postgraduate awards.
(d)
A progression decision in situations where a student has met the progression requirements of their course but did not make the university aware of serious circumstances affecting their study before a progression examination board made its decision and is appealing to mitigate a possible effect on their future degree classification. This also applies to postgraduate research progression review outcomes. Such an appeal would be considered if submitted within the requirements of this code and the student demonstrates compelling reasons why they were unable to make the university aware of circumstances affecting their study prior to the examination board decision (for example, reasons associated with a disability or medically evidenced incapacity to engage with support procedures).
(e)
A decision not to award the qualification for which a student is registered and instead award a lower qualification or no qualification. This relates to decisions made at the end of a student's taught course or research degree.
(f)
A decision of a university Fitness to Practise Committee, Practice Assessment Panel or Special Cases Committee. This is relevant to students on professional courses who have been the subject of
fitness to practise procedures
.
(g)
The outcome of an
extenuating circumstances claim
.
Where more than one right applies, a student may select multiple rights on their academic appeal form. A student can only submit one appeal against any decision which gives them the right to appeal as set out above.
2.5 What issues are grounds for appeal under this code?
Only claims of at least one of the following circumstances will be considered as grounds for appeal:
(a)
Parts of the documented assessment procedure were not applied (a procedural irregularity) and this procedural irregularity, which has disadvantaged the student, was significant enough to have materially affected the decision or recommendation made, rendering it unsound.
(b)
Prejudice or bias on the part of one or more of the examiners took place and can be substantiated with evidence, or there are grounds to support a reasonable perception of prejudice or bias.
(c)
The decision-making body took a decision which no reasonable person would find comprehensible (a “manifestly unreasonable” decision). To apply this ground, the student must provide a substantive argument explaining why no reasonable person could have arrived at the decision that was made. Disagreement with a decision does not make it manifestly unreasonable.
(d)
The student’s performance was materially affected by circumstances for which there is evidence which was not, and could not have been, made available to the examination board at the time of its original decision. The student will be required to explain why the circumstances could not have been brought to the university’s attention sooner. If evidence which relates to an extenuating circumstances outcome is submitted as an appeal prior to an exam board having taken place, this will be referred to the extenuating circumstances process for consideration and the appeal will be closed.
Where the student believes that more than one ground applies to their appeal, the student may select multiple grounds. The student submitting the appeal must establish the case and explain why they believe they have grounds for appeal.
2.6 What issues are grounds for an appeal review request under this code?
Only claims of at least one of the following circumstances will be considered as grounds for an appeal review request:
(a)
Procedural irregularity in the handling of the appeal which has disadvantaged the student and was significant enough to have materially affected the decision or recommendation made, rendering it unsound
(b)
A compelling argument that the decision was not reasonable in the circumstances. Claims of this nature must be supported by evidence and a clear rationale for the unreasonable nature of the decision. Claims that simply amount to an expression of dissatisfaction with the decision will not be considered.
Where the student believes that more than one ground applies to their appeal review request, the student may select multiple grounds. The student submitting the appeal review request must establish the case and explain why they believe they have grounds for review.
2.7 Exclusions from this code
The following circumstances will not be considered grounds for appeal:
(a)   Perceived shortcomings in tuition, supervision or support.
Concerns relating to the quality of teaching, supervision or other circumstances that relate to the delivery of a programme of study should be raised through the student complaints process  within the timescales set out in that process. Cases where complaints are upheld and there has been a clear impact on an academic outcome may lead to an academic conclusion e.g. allowing a student a further attempt at an assessment.
(b)   Matters of academic judgement of an examination board or individual.
The student will not be permitted to argue the academic merits of their work. The student's assertion that the result unfairly reflects the merit of their work or their ability is not a ground of appeal.
(c)   Disagreement with the actual mark awarded for a piece of assessed work except where grounds can be established above.
If a student wishes to have clarification about a mark received for an individual assessment or module, they are advised to contact their school/department or module convener directly. Errors in calculating or recording marks on which the original decision was made cannot be submitted as grounds for appeal unless these errors have been brought to the attention of the school/department but have not been resolved.
(d)   Appeals against provisional marks.
(e)   Any matters relating to circumstances affecting study which could have been raised before the meeting of the examination board or the confirmation of a postgraduate research progression review outcome.
Students cannot use the appeals process to request an outcome that would change a penalty for academic misconduct. Information about requesting a review of an academic misconduct finding and/or penalty can be found in the
Academic Misconduct Procedure
.
2.8 Principles
This code upholds the OIA principles of good practice for appeals procedures, which outlines that they should:
Be accessible and clear
Be fair, independent and confidential1
Be inclusive
Be flexible, proportionate and timely
Improve the student experience.
While information related to an academic appeal case will be kept as confidential as possible, information provided as part of an appeal usually needs to be shared with relevant staff members in schools/departments and services across the university to allow for full consideration of any issues or circumstances raised.
Appeals will be treated seriously and students will not suffer any disadvantage or recrimination as the result of making an appeal in good faith. Appeals made frivolously, vexatiously or with malice will not be investigated.
The university is committed to ensuring that appeals are handled in accordance with this code. Occasionally, it may be sensible for the university to deviate from procedure if strict adherence to it could give rise to perceptions of prejudice or bias.
Appeals form part of the university's process of quality review and improvement and are considered as providing valuable feedback rather than criticism. We will widely publicise information about procedures to students and staff, and all schools and central services are required to provide a link to them via their websites.
The university will not accept or investigate appeals which it considers to be in breach of the standards set out in the
Unacceptable Behaviour Policy
.
Students will be notified as early in the process as possible if the remedy sought within the appeal is beyond what the university can reasonably provide or what is in its power to provide.
It is important for students to note that the Office of the Independent Adjudicator cannot consider matters which are or which have been the subject of court proceedings. Similarly, the university reserves the right to decline, suspend or to discontinue an appeal made under this code if legal proceedings are commenced and the claim concerns the same subject matter as the appeal.
3. Roles and responsibilities
3.1 Role and responisbilities of those submitting and responding to appeals
Students
To raise appeals promptly and in accordance with the timescales of this code.
To conduct themselves responsibly and treat the process and members of the university involved in the process with respect at all times, in line with the Unacceptable Behaviour Policy. Where a student is being represented by a third party, the Policy on Communication with Third Parties also applies.
Students’ Union Advice Team
To provide independent support and guidance to students wishing to use this code.
Supporters (for students)
Where a supporter is attending a meeting with a student at any part of the academic appeals process, they may take notes on the student’s behalf, make representations on their behalf and ask questions, but may not answer questions on their behalf.
Investigations and Resolution Team
To administer the handling of appeals and assess their eligibility for consideration
To provide information to students on the process and progress of their appeal
To provide advice and training to staff members on the process
To issue outcome responses to appeals within the timescales of this code (or advise the student of any delays)
To ensure that those appointed to respond to appeals are free from prejudice and bias or a reasonable perception of prejudice and bias
To review and update this code of practice
To maintain records of appeals and to provide reports to university committees as required.
Those receiving, considering and making decisions on appeals at both the appeal and appeal review stages, including staff in the Investigations and Resolution team making decision at the initial triage stage of an appeal/appeal review
To approach an appeal/appeal review with an open mind and to act fairly, proportionately and reasonably in relation to the appeal/appeal review
To uphold the university’s principles of equality, diversity and inclusion
To access training opportunities related to the appeals process and keep up to date with developments to this code of practice
To declare any potential conflicts of interest
For staff in schools/departments at the appeal stage: to prepare a school/department response form and submit this to the Investigations and Resolution team within the timescales of this code (or advise of any delays)
At appeal review stage: to ensure that consideration of an appeal review is carried out, which may be delegated (as set out in section 4.1 of this code).
Quality and Standards Committee
To approve this code as part of the university’s Quality Manual and to have oversight of the activity of the Investigations and Resolution team
To receive and review reports relating to appeal handling at the university.
3.2 Support for students
We encourage students to seek advice from Students' Union Advice at any stage in the appeals process, including seeking advice on how to present their case effectively. The Students’ Union is independent from the university and has specialists who can provide impartial advice.
If a student needs adjustments to support them to access any stage of the academic appeals process, they should email the Investigations and Resolution team at
academic-appeals@nottingham.ac.uk
outlining what adjustments would be useful.
Students have the right to bring a supporter to meetings arranged during any stage of the appeals process. The supporter must be one of the following:
An education adviser from Students’ Union Advice
A fellow student
A member of staff
A union representative (e.g. BMA, RCN).
The university provides a number of support services which may be useful to students making an appeal under this code. Information about the services available can be found on the Wellbeing Service webpages. This includes pastoral support available from Support and Wellbeing.
Wellbeing service webpages
4. Procedural steps
4.1 Overview of the academic appeals process
The academic appeals process has six potential stages. A case may not need to progress through all stages of the process. Decisions about which stages a case goes through will be led by the relevant case handler from the Investigations and Resolution team in conjunction with colleagues in schools/departments where appropriate. In the event of any disagreement between parties regarding these stages, the final decision will be made by the Head of Casework.
The potential stages of the appeals process are:
4.1.1 Initial assessment of the case by the Investigations and Resolution team
On receipt of an appeal, the Investigations and Resolution team will determine the eligibility of the appeal in accordance with this code. The appeal will be closed if the student:
has not completed the appeal form fully*
has not supplied any or relevant evidence*
does not have the right to appeal
has requested an outcome that is not available within the academic appeals process or is beyond what the university can reasonably provide/has the power to provide*
has submitted the appeal outside of the timelines stated in section 4.2 of this code
has not adequately explained why the circumstances claimed establish grounds for appeal
has previously submitted an appeal relating to the same grounds.
*If the student has not completed the appeal form in full or has not supplied any or relevant evidence, or if the outcome requested by the student is not available within the academic appeals process, the student will be invited to revise and resubmit their appeal. The deadline for resubmission will be set by the Investigations and Resolution team.
If the circumstances claimed by the student should be addressed under a different policy, the student will be informed and guided to the correct policy and the appeal case will be closed.
The Investigations and Resolution team has the remit to decide whether there is sufficient evidence to warrant further consideration of the case and to close appeals which do not warrant such consideration. As part of this, they may seek further information from a school/department, service or from the student.
As a result of the initial assessment stage, one of the following actions will be taken:
The case will be closed and the student will be guided to the appropriate policy for consideration of the topics being raised.
The case will be closed if it has not met the requirements set out in this code and the student will be provided with an explanation of which requirements have not been met and advised of further steps available to them.
The case will be accepted for further consideration and progressed for a school/department response.
4.1.2 School/department response
If the initial assessment of the case by the Investigations and Resolution team finds that further consideration of the appeal is required, the case will be forwarded to the relevant school/department and information will be gathered regarding the case. The school/department’s response will usually be submitted on a school/department response form within 10 working days. The school/department should address in full the points raised in the student's appeal form, referencing relevant policies and procedure where applicable. The response should either make a revised recommendation (sometimes called an
upheld
decision) or confirm the original decision (sometimes called a not
upheld/rejected
decision). In either case, the school/department should provide a written response and any relevant evidence. A revised recommendation (upheld decision) will not necessarily result in the outcome requested by the student (for example where the school/department believes an alternative outcome is more appropriate).
As a result of the school/department response stage, one of the following actions will be taken:
The case will be upheld if it establishes grounds for appeal and a revised recommendation will be issued. The student will be provided with an explanation of why grounds have been established and the actions to be taken by both the university and the student following this decision.
The case will not be upheld if it does not establish grounds for appeal. The student will be provided with an explanation of why grounds have not been established and will be advised of further steps available to them, including information about submitting an appeal review request.
The case will be referred to an Academic Appeal Panel.
4.1.3 Academic Appeal Panel
If the triage process demonstrates that the case is not suitable for a school/department decision, the student’s appeal will be considered by an Academic Appeal Panel, which acts with the fully delegated authority of Senate. This could be for a number of reasons, which might include:
The school/department does not wish to make a revised recommendation as it does not believe grounds have been established, but the case handler disagrees
The school/department and case handler agree that a revised recommendation should not be made but the case would benefit from further consideration by a panel
The case is too complex to be suitable for a decision at the school/department stage alone.
A panel might also consider an appeal case where the student rejects a revised recommendation issued as a result of their appeal.
Determination for the suitability of a case for referral to a panel is made by the Investigations and Resolution team.
The Academic Appeal Panel will comprise of three members of the
Academic Appeals and Academic Misconduct Committee
. No member of the panel will have had any prior involvement in the case. A member of the Investigations and Resolution team will be present throughout proceedings to provide guidance with respect to matters of policy and precedent but they will not be a member of the panel. This individual may act as note taker or may be accompanied by a further member of staff acting as note taker.
The Academic Appeal Panel will base its decisions on the information and evidence submitted by the student and the response provided by the school/department. The panel may request further evidence from the student and/or the school/department, if required. This is a paper-based consideration and neither the student nor the school/department is entitled to attend. The student will be sent a copy of the paperwork to be considered by the panel and invited to highlight any factual inaccuracies in the information provided by the school/department so that this can be brought to the attention of the panel. New evidence/information will not be considered at this stage unless there is compelling evidence that it was not previously available or it is provided in support of a claim of factual inaccuracy.
The Academic Appeal Panel may:
Reject the appeal and confirm the original decision
Uphold the appeal and accept the revised recommendation submitted by school/department
Uphold the appeal and refer the case back to the school/department to reconsider
Uphold the appeal and substitute another decision, rejecting the revised recommendation submitted by school/department (if applicable)
Refer the case to an Academic Appeal Hearing.
The Academic Appeal Panel cannot change marks or degree classifications.
The Academic Appeal Panel may attach conditions to these decisions, such as the requirement for the student to provide medical evidence. Clear instructions will be provided about the consequences of failing to comply with these conditions.
The decision of the Academic Appeals Panel, reasons for the decision and any findings of fact will be conveyed to the student, normally within five working days of the meeting.
4.1.4 Academic Appeal Hearing
Please read the Academic Appeal Hearing procedure.
Academic Appeal Hearing procedure.
An Academic Appeal Hearing acts with the full delegated authority of Senate. It has the power to require members of staff of the university to attend, give evidence, and answer questions.
A case may be referred to a hearing if one or more of the following grounds apply:
There is a compelling argument that the student’s case would be adversely affected by not being able to present their argument in person
An Academic Appeal Panel is unable to agree on a course of action
The appeal case concerns a student who has already attended a panel or committee to address issues of professional competence. This is likely to apply to cases concerning a Fitness to Practise Committee, Practice Assessment Panel or Special Cases Committee, for example.
Determination for the suitability of a case for referral to a hearing is made by the Investigations and Resolution team.
The student will receive a written invitation to the hearing from the Investigations and Resolution team at least 10 working days in advance of the hearing. The student will be asked to confirm in writing whether they intend to attend.
The Academic Appeals Hearing panel will comprise of three members. Two of the members will be academic staff members of the Academic Appeals and Academic Misconduct Committee and one of these will act as chair. The third member will be a student delegate nominated by the Students’ Union. If no student delegate is available, the hearing panel shall instead include a full-time officer from the Students’ Union. Where no student delegate or full-time officer is available, the third member of the panel will be a further member of the Academic Appeals and Academic Misconduct Committee.
For a hearing considering an appeal against the decision of an Academic Appeal Panel or a committee convened to address issues of professional competence, such as a Fitness to Practise Committee, Practice Assessment Panel or Special Cases Committee, the hearing panel will include two additional staff members of the relevant faculty. In the case of fitness to practise, one of the additional members must be a clinically active member of the same professional discipline as the student.
No member of the hearing panel will have had any prior involvement in the case.
The student will be notified of the names of the members of the hearing panel and should notify the Investigations and Resolution team immediately of any conflict of interest so that the membership of the panel can be reviewed. The student should inform the Investigations and Resolution team at least five working days prior to the hearing if they do not wish, or wish to insist, that a student delegate is included in the hearing panel. If the student wishes to insist that a student delegate is included in the hearing panel, this may result in a delay to the hearing taking place while a suitable student delegate is found.
A member of the Investigations and Resolution team will be present throughout proceedings to service the hearing panel and provide guidance with respect to matters of policy and precedent but they will not be a member of the hearing panel. This individual may act as note taker or may be accompanied by a further member of staff acting as note taker.
The student is entitled to bring a supporter as detailed in section 3.2 of this code. The student must inform the Investigations and Resolution team of the name and status of their supporter at least five working days prior to the hearing. The student may be asked to choose a different supporter if, for example, it is perceived that the chosen supporter may cause a conflict of interest or if their presence may prejudice the meeting.
The school/department will be requested to send a representative to attend the hearing. This representative should have detailed knowledge of the case, the student’s academic career and the arrangements for the student’s course.
The hearing panel, the student and the school/department representative will all have access to the same evidence.
The hearing panel will base its decisions on the information and evidence submitted. The hearing panel can:
Reject the appeal and confirm the original decision
Uphold the appeal and accept the revised recommendation submitted by the school/department
Uphold the appeal and refer the case back to the school/department to reconsider
Uphold the appeal and substitute another decision, rejecting the revised recommendation submitted by the school/department (if applicable).
Where a hearing panel is making a decision related to a fitness to practise case, the only options available to the panel are i) and iii) above.
The decision taken at the Academic Appeals Hearing, reasons for the decision and any findings of fact will normally be conveyed to the student by the Investigations and Resolution team within five working days of the hearing.
4.1.5 New evidence
In both instances outlined below, the Investigations and Resolution team will determine if new evidence can be accepted for consideration. Students can normally only submit new evidence for consideration on one occasion (either before the appeal outcome or within the 10 working days following the appeal outcome). Multiple submissions of new evidence will not normally be accepted.
New evidence prior to receiving an outcome:
Students are expected to provide all relevant evidence at the point of submitting their appeal; if evidence is provided after submission of their appeal form, they must explain why this evidence was not previously available for it and demonstrate its relevance to the case for it to be considered. Evidence which could have been included in the original appeal will not normally be considered.
If a student has new evidence to provide in support of their appeal, they must do this as soon as possible by emailing
academic-appeals@nottingham.ac.uk
.
If the new evidence is accepted for consideration, the Investigations and Resolution team will arrange for the evidence to be provided to those considering the appeal at its current stage. If the new evidence is not accepted, the student will be provided with an explanation of why they have not established that the evidence was not available previously and/or is materially relevant to their case.
New evidence following receipt of an outcome:
A student can submit new evidence which was not previously available up to 10 working days after receiving their appeal outcome. If the student requires an extension to this timeframe, they can request this as detailed in section 4.2 of this code. New evidence must be submitted using the new appeal evidence form, which will support the student to explain:
The relevance of the new evidence to their case
Why this evidence was not previously available.
If the new evidence is accepted for consideration, the appeal will return to the school/department stage of the academic appeal process for reconsideration.
If the new evidence is not accepted for consideration, the student will be provided with an explanation of why they have not established that the evidence was not available previously and/or is materially relevant to their case. The student has no further route to request consideration of new evidence within this code but can submit an appeal review request. A new deadline for the submission of a review request will be set by the Investigations and Resolution team in line with the timescales in section 4.2 of this code.
4.1.6 Appeal review request
If a student is dissatisfied with the formal outcome of their appeal, they may be able to request a review of this decision on the grounds detailed in section 2.6 of this code.
New arguments or criteria not included in the original appeal will not be considered as part of a review request. Requests that amount simply to an expression of dissatisfaction with the decision without establishing grounds for review will not be considered. The review exists to assess the reasonableness of the decision made based on the case made by the student in their appeal submission or whether there is any evidence of a procedural irregularity in the handling of the appeal stage.
The request for review should be submitted to the Investigations and Resolution team. The request should be submitted within 10 working days of the student being notified of the outcome of their original application to appeal. Review requests submitted after this period will only be considered in the most exceptional circumstances and where there is good reason, supported by evidence, for the late submission.
Only written cases made using a fully completed academic appeal review request form, supported by evidence which establishes one or more of the grounds outlined in section 2.6 of this code, will be accepted. Reviews of decisions made at the initial assessment stage or the school/department response stage will be conducted by a member of the Academic Appeals and Academic Misconduct Committee. Reviews against the decision of an Academic Appeal Panel or Academic Appeal Hearing will be conducted by the Director of Registry & Academic Affairs or their nominee.
The review stage will not usually consider the issues afresh or involve further investigation. The reviewer will have access to all documentation considered by the decision-making body and may request further information from relevant parties. The reviewer can:
Close the review request and require reconsideration by the original decision-maker if the outcome letter provides insufficient information for the reviewer to reach a conclusion on the case
Close the review request and require consideration of the case by an Academic Appeal Panel if the case was dismissed at the initial assessment stage
Uphold the claim and substitute a decision on behalf of the university
Reject the claim and issue the student with a completion of procedures letter.
After the internal university processes have been exhausted, students have the opportunity to have their case independently reviewed by the
OIA
.
4.2 Expected time limits
The OIA Good Practice Framework stipulates that the handling of appeals will normally be completed within 90 calendar days of the submission of the appeal and its acceptance into process. This timeframe requires students to meet any deadlines set by the university. Delays in information or evidence being provided will require this timeframe to be extended. If a student requires an extension to any of the timescales set out in this section, they must request this from the Investigations and Resolution team prior to the deadline by emailing
academic-appeals@nottingham.ac.uk
.
Where the table below refers to working days, this means working days at the University of Nottingham which can be checked on the
bank holidays and closure days webpage
. If a student requires support with calculating the latest date on which their appeal can be submitted, they can email the Investigations and Resolution team at
academic-appeals@nottingham.ac.uk
.
Expected time limits
Student
Investigations and Resolutions Team
Outcome
Appeal
Appeal should be raised within 30 working days of the decision the student is appealing (right to appeal)
Will acknowledge receipt of appeal within five working days of submission
The outcome of an appeal and any appeal review request will normally be communicated within 90 calendar days of the appeal being received. If this is not possible, the staff member responding to the appeal will provide an explanation for the delay and an alternative timescale will be issued to the student.
Appeal review
Appeal review request should be raised within 10 working days of the outcome of the original appeal
Will acknowledge receipt of appeal within five working days of submission
The outcome of an appeal and any appeal review request will normally be communicated within 90 calendar days of the appeal being received. If this is not possible, the staff member responding to the appeal will provide an explanation for the delay and an alternative timescale will be issued to the student.
When the appeal review request stage has been completed, the student has completed the university’s academic appeals process and can request a completion of procedures letter if they wish to raise their appeal with the Office of the Independent Adjudicator.
OIA
Appeal case should be raised with the OIA (who will refer to it as a ‘complaint’) within 12 months of the date of issue of the Completion of Procedures letter
No direct involvement with student
Variable
If a student fails to proceed within the given deadlines of the academic appeals process, they may not be able to progress through the internal academic appeals mechanisms of the university.
Appeals submitted outside of the timescales stipulated in this code will only be considered in the most exceptional circumstances and where there is good reason, supported by evidence, for the late submission.
4.3 Standard of evidence
Independent, reliable evidence is normally required to accompany an academic appeal. Details of the types of evidence often submitted as part of an appeal can be found in section 4.4 of this code.
Evidence submitted as part of an appeal should:
Where written by appropriately qualified professionals who are independent of the student, be on headed paper and signed and dated by the author. Evidence presented by email may be acceptable if the email has been sent by the author from the official domain name of the author's organisation. Students should note that services, such as medical services or university support services, are unlikely to be able to provide evidence if the student has had no engagement with that service.
Confirm that the circumstances were witnessed on the relevant date as opposed to being reported retrospectively. Evidence reported by the author as being informed retrospectively about the circumstances will not be acceptable evidence.
Be in English. It is the student's responsibility to provide supporting documentation and any translation should be undertaken by an accredited translator (e.g. be a member of the Association of Translation Companies). Any associated costs must be met by the student.
Medical certificates supplied by online doctors will not be accepted.
As part of an appeal, staff can consider evidence supplied by other members of university staff known to the student, such as a personal tutor, a staff member from the Residential Experience team, or a staff member from the Support and Wellbeing team.
The university reserves the right to take such steps as are deemed necessary to verify the evidence submitted, without prior notification. Where the university is unable to authenticate the material to its satisfaction, the evidence may not be accepted. The university reserves the right to request sight of original documents. If there is evidence that a student has fraudulently presented documentation to the university, the matter will usually be referred for consideration under the academic misconduct or disciplinary processes.
4.4 Responsibilities of students when raising an appeal
Appeals
Before submitting an appeal, a student should:
Check that that they have both the right to appeal and grounds for appeal in accordance with this code.
Discuss the matter with an appropriate person in their school/department, which may resolve the student’s concerns or clarify their understanding about how a mark for an assessment was given or how a classification has been calculated, for example.
An appeal must be submitted by completing the academic appeal form which can be accessed through the
appeals webpages
. If a student needs adjustments to support them to access the university’s appeals process, they should email the Investigations and Resolution team at
academic-appeals@nottingham.ac.uk
outlining what adjustments would be useful.
When raising an appeal, students must:
Clearly outline the reasons for their appeal, including details of the outcome they are seeking. Appeals that do not outline a clear rationale will not be accepted for consideration. If the case handler from the Investigations and Resolution team (who carries out the initial triage of appeals cases to confirm they are eligible under this code) believes that a submission is unclear or unnecessarily long, the student will be asked to resubmit the form in a manner than enables proper consideration of the appeal to take place.
Gather evidence in support of their appeal, ensuring that they include important dates, times and other details that are needed to assess the eligibility of their appeal. Appeals without relevant evidence will not be accepted for consideration. This could include, but is not limited to, the following:
A timeline of events (if they cannot remember the exact dates, the student can provide a rough timeline of events)
Reference to relevant policies, procedures and/or regulations
Letters/emails
Evidence from others, such as independent medical evidence, reports by professionals or witness statements
Screenshots
The outcome of an investigation under another University of Nottingham process.
Provide all evidence relevant to their appeal at the point of submitting their academic appeal form. Evidence submitted after the submission of an appeal form will only be accepted under the circumstances outlined in section 4.1.5 of this code. The evidence must meet the standard of evidence outlined in section 4.3 of this code.
Complete the academic appeal form in full.
Appeals must be submitted as soon as possible and within the timescales set out in section 4.2 of this code.
Review requests
An appeal review request must be submitted by completing the academic appeal review request form which can be accessed through the appeals webpages. If a student needs adjustments to support them to access the university’s appeals process, they should email the Investigations and Resolution team at
academic-appeals@nottingham.ac.uk
outlining what adjustments would be useful.
When raising an appeal review request, students must:
Identify the ground(s) under which they are submitting the request (as set out in section 2.6 of this code)
Provide evidence in support of their claim. A student who wishes to provide evidence that was not provided as part of the student’s original appeal should not submit this as a review request and should instead follow the procedural steps set out in section 4.1.5 of this code under the heading ‘New evidence’ and must explain why this evidence was not available at the time of their original appeal.
Complete the academic appeal review request form in full.
Appeal review requests must be submitted within the timescales set out in section 4.2 of this code. The outcome to the student’s original appeal will confirm the date by which they must submit their request for an appeal review.
4.5 Responsibilities of staff responding to appeals
Initial assessment stage
On receipt of an appeal, the Investigations and Resolution team will undertake an initial evaluation to check that the appeal is submitted under the right procedures, within the appropriate deadlines, and in the required format with supporting evidence. The Investigations and Resolution team will administer the appeal and will provide information and support regarding the process to students and staff at all stages.
After the initial assessment of the case, one of the actions listed in section 4.1.1 of this code will be taken by the Investigations and Resolution team.
School/department response
On receipt of an appeal case requiring a school/department response, the receiving individual in the school/department will ensure that consideration of the appeal case is carried out. The consideration may be carried out by any member of staff who has received appeals training.
The school/department should submit their response on a school/department response form, usually within 10 working days, addressing the points in the student’s appeal form in full and referencing relevant policies and procedures where applicable. The response will either make a revised recommendation or confirm the original decision. The form will be returned to the Investigations and Resolution team alongside any relevant evidence.
If the appeal is not proceeding to an Academic Appeal Panel or Academic Appeal Hearing, the Investigations and Resolution team will issue the appeal outcome to the student and advise them of further steps available to them, including submitting an appeal review request.
Academic Appeal Panel
If an appeal is being considered by an Academic Appeal Panel, the Investigations and Resolution team will be responsible for arranging for the panel to take place in accordance with section 4.1.3 of this code and will service the panel.
If a member of the Academic Appeals and Academic Misconduct Committee selected to be a member of the panel has prior knowledge of the case and/or there is a conflict of interest, they should inform the Investigations and Resolution team immediately so that an alternative member of the committee can be identified if required.
The outcome of a panel will be issued to the student by the Investigations and Resolution team, normally within five working days of the meeting.
Academic Appeal Hearing
If an appeal is being considered by an Academic Appeal Hearing, the Investigations and Resolution team will be responsible for arranging for the hearing to take place in accordance with the procedural steps in section 4.1.4 of this code and will service the hearing.
If an individual selected to be a member of the hearing panel has prior knowledge of the case and/or there is a conflict of interest, they should inform the Investigations and Resolution team immediately so that an alternative hearing panel member can be identified if required.
The school/department representative attending the hearing is responsible for ensuring they have detailed knowledge of the case, the student’s academic career and arrangements for the student’s course.
The outcome of a hearing will be issued to the student by the Investigations and Resolution team, normally within five working days of the hearing.
Appeal review request
On receipt of an appeal review request, the Investigations and Resolution team will undertake an initial evaluation to check that the review request is submitted under the right procedures, within the appropriate deadlines, and in the required format with supporting evidence. The Investigations and Resolution team will administer the review request and will provide information and support regarding the process to students and staff at all stages. Where a student is requesting a review of a decision made by a member of the Investigations and Resolution team at the initial assessment stage, a different member of the team will conduct the initial assessment of the appeal review request.
After the initial assessment of the review request, one of the following actions will be taken by the Investigations and Resolution team:
The case will be rejected if it has not met the requirements set out in this code. The Investigations and Resolution team will provide the student with an explanation of which requirements have not been met and they will be advised of further steps available to them.
The case will be accepted for review and the Investigations and Resolution team will organise for the case to be considered by a reviewer, in line with section 4.1.6 of this code.
On receipt of an appeal review case, the reviewer will proceed to conduct the review. If the reviewer has prior knowledge of the case and/or there is a conflict of interest, they should inform the Investigations and Resolution team immediately, which will organise for an alternative reviewer to consider the case if required.
The reviewer will submit their response to the Investigations and Resolution team. The reviewer can:
Close the review request and require reconsideration of the original appeal by the original decision maker if the outcome letter provides insufficient information for the reviewer to reach a conclusion on the case
Close the review request and require consideration of the original appeal case by an Academic Appeal Panel, if the case was dismissed at the initial assessment stage
Uphold the review request and substitute a decision on behalf of the university
Reject the review request and require the student to be issued with a completion of procedures letter.
The outcome of a review request will be issued to the student by the Investigations and Resolution team.
5. Internal, statutory or regulatory requirements
5.1 Office of the Independent Adjudicator
As required by the OIA, if the university is unable to resolve an appeal to the student’s satisfaction, and there are no further steps available to the student, the Investigations and Resolution team will issue a formal completion of procedures letter within 28 days of the outcome being determined. This provides formal confirmation that the student has exhausted the internal procedure and is required for their case to be considered by the OIA. The OIA operates externally to the university. It will not normally look at a case unless and until all relevant internal procedures have been exhausted. Further information is available from the OIA website.
OIA website
5.2 Recording and monitoring of appeals
It is important that appeals are monitored in order to improve the student experience. The Investigations and Resolution team will record and provide reports to indicate the nature of appeals and outcomes. Such reports will:
Feed into the monitoring and evaluation procedure at various levels: department, school, faculty and university
Feed directly into appropriate university-wide committees
Assist in identifying problems and trends across the university
Form the basis of positive publicity in demonstrating that identified issues have been resolved
Be made available to the Students' Union.
5.3 Review of this code
This code will be reviewed every two years by the Head of Casework in Registry and Academic Affairs.
6. Related policies, procedures, standards and guidance
Policy on Communication with Third Parties
Unacceptable Behaviour Policy
Student Code of Conduct
Student Complaints Code of Practice
Academic misconduct policy and procedure
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 September 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/concerns-complaints-and-appeals/student-complaints-cop.aspx
Header: Student Complaints Code of Practice
Intro: This page contains the University's code of practice on student complaints. Its content is applicable to staff and students across the UK campuses.
Content:
Student Complaints Code of Practice - The University of NottinghamStudent Complaints Code of Practice
This page contains the University's code of practice on student complaints. Its content is applicable to staff and students across the UK campuses.1. Purpose
This code of practice provides information about the principles and approach that must be followed by students and staff when students wish to raise a complaint. It explains the types of complaints that can be considered, provides information about each level of the process, sets out expectations of those involved in submitting and responding to complaints, and provides details of the expected timescales.
The Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA) is an independent body which runs a student complaints scheme for England and Wales, in line with the requirements of the Higher Education Act 2004. The University of Nottingham is a member of this scheme and this code has therefore been written in accordance with the
OIA’s Good Practice Framework
for the handling of complaints.
2. Scope
2.1 Who this code applies to
The content of this code of practice is applicable to staff and students across the UK campuses. Details of who is considered a student under this procedure are in section 2.3 of this code.
For students and staff studying or working at University of Nottingham Ningbo China or University of Nottingham Malaysia, please consult the information on the relevant webpages:
University of Nottingham Ningbo China - student complaints
University of Nottingham Malaysia - student complaints
2.2 Definitions
Complaint
For the purposes of this code, the university has adopted the definition used by the OIA, which is “an expression of dissatisfaction by one or more students about a university’s action or lack of action, or about the service provided by or on behalf of the university”.
Feedback
A student may provide feedback, which will be considered by a school, department or service when reviewing its policies and operations, without using this code. Students are encouraged to provide feedback to the appropriate school/department representative, the appropriate department of the students’ union, student staff forums (SSF) or service provider in a prompt and constructive manner.
2.3 Who can use this code of practice?
For the purposes of this code of practice, a student  is:
• An individual who is a current fully registered student of the university, or;
• An individual who has previously been fully registered as a student of the university and is complaining about events that occurred before they left the university.
This code applies to postgraduate research students in their capacity as a student. Any complaints linked to an employment status at the university that is held at the same time as a postgraduate research student’s studies (for example as a demonstrator or teacher) should be dealt with under relevant staff procedures.
Applicants wishing to make a complaint should consult the following:
Information about admissions feedback, appeals and complaints.
Apprentices wishing to make a complaint should consult the following:
Apprentice Complaints Policy
Apprentice Complaints Procedure
A group of students may use this code of practice to make a collective complaint. To raise a group complaint, one student must be identified as the main contact and have written consent from all others that wish to be named as part of the complaint. If a student is aware that a group complaint is being raised but does not wish to be part of it, they can submit an individual complaint if they wish to do so.
Anyone wishing to make a complaint is usually expected to do so themselves, unless they are part of a group complaint as detailed above.
The Policy on Communications with Third Parties
applies to the student complaints process. It provides information about circumstances in which a student may request for a third-party (such as a family member or friend) to represent them.
Anonymous complaints will not be considered unless there are exceptional reasons to do so, supported by evidence. In many circumstances, raising a concern anonymously could impede the investigation and communication of the outcome.
2.4 What issues are grounds for a complaint under this code?
For a complaint to be considered under this code, the student raising the complaint is usually expected to demonstrate the direct impact that the issues being raised have had on them. If a student has more general concerns, these can be raised as feedback with the relevant school/department or service.
The subject of the complaint should relate specifically to one or more of the following or similar issues:
• Failure of the university to meet obligations including those specified in course and student handbooks
• Misleading or incorrect information in prospectuses, promotional material or other information provided by the university
• Concerns about the delivery of a programme, teaching, supervision or administration (where applicable, this includes delivery which is provided by a partner institution. In the first instance, the student would normally be expected to follow the partner institution’s complaints procedures )
• Poor quality of facilities, learning resources or services provided directly by the university
• Complaints involving other organisations or contractors providing a service on behalf of the university
• Events causing significant disruption to the normal delivery of a course, service or other aspect of the student experience, such as industrial action or a public health emergency
• Concerns about the application of a policy or procedure, such as those relating to financial support, immigration processes or welfare support.
Cases where complaints regarding one or more of the issues above (or similar) are upheld and there has been a clear impact on an academic outcome may lead to an academic conclusion – for example, to allow a student a further attempt at an assessment.
Complaints relating to allegations of bullying, harassment or victimisation by members of staff will be considered in line with the
Dignity at Nottingham
principles.
2.5 Exclusions from this code
The following areas are not grounds for complaint under this code.
1. Challenges to the academic judgement of a member of staff and/or school.
Dissatisfaction with a mark and/or the academic judgment of the university is not grounds for a complaint. The Office of the Independent Adjudicator will not interfere with the operation of a university’s academic judgement.
2. Cases where some or all of the content is better suited to the academic appeals process.
Where a student raises issues which are better considered under the academic appeals process, they will be directed to that process and their case will not be considered through the complaints process. Where a student raises issues which do not fall neatly into the category of either complaint or academic appeal, the university will notify the student which specific issues will be considered under the complaints process and direct the student to the academic appeals process for the remaining issues.
3. Disagreement with a policy/regulation rather than its application.
In this instance, the matter should be raised by the student with the relevant student representative to be raised at the student staff forum (SSF) or another appropriate committee or group.
4. Non-academic matters raised by students who are studying by collaborative arrangement and who are studying away from the university at partner institutions.
These issues should be raised with the partner institution.
5. A matter of public interest which may be better suited to the Whistleblowing (Public Interest Disclosure) Code.
Information about the Whistleblowing Code can be found here:
Whistleblowing (Public Interest Disclosure) Code
6. Areas with separate complaints procedures, such as applications to the University and University of Nottingham Students’ Union.
Complaints about these areas should be raised in line with the relevant procedure.
7. Complaints about the behaviour of students
Complaints about the behaviour of students towards other students are within the scope of the Student Code of Conduct.
Student Code of Conduct
2.6 Principles
This code upholds the OIA principles of good practice for complaint procedures, which outlines that they should:
• Be accessible and clear
• Be fair, independent and confidential
• Be inclusive
• Be flexible, proportionate and timely
• Improve the student experience.
Complaints  should be treated seriously and students must not suffer any disadvantage or recrimination as a result of making a complaint in good faith.
In all cases, it is desirable that complaints are resolved as soon as possible between the relevant parties, and that the formal process (from level 2 onwards) is only started if that fails. Evidence of an attempt at early resolution (level 1) will be required before the formal process can begin.
Mediation can be a useful means of resolving matters of complaint where the parties involved are willing to engage voluntarily in the process in an attempt to work things out. The university may make an offer of mediation to students at any stage of the complaint process.
The university is committed to ensuring that complaints are handled in accordance with this code. Occasionally, it may be sensible for the university to deviate from procedure if strict adherence to it could give rise to perceptions of prejudice or bias.
The university will not accept or investigate complaints which it considers to be in breach of the standards set out in the Unacceptable Behaviour Policy.
Unacceptable Behaviour Policy
Complaints form part of the university's process of quality review and improvement and are considered as valuable feedback. The university will widely publicise information about this code to students and staff, and all schools/departments and central services are required to provide a link to it via their websites.
Students  will be notified early in the process if the remedy sought within the complaint is beyond the power of the university to deliver.
It is important for students to note that the Office of the Independent Adjudicator cannot consider matters which are or which have been the subject of court proceedings. Similarly, the university reserves the right to decline, suspend or to discontinue a complaint under the student complaints process if legal proceedings are commenced which concern the same subject matter as the complaint.
3. Roles and responsibilities
3.1 Roles and responsibilities of those submitting and responding to complaints
Students
• To raise complaints promptly and in accordance with the timescales of this code.
• To conduct themselves responsibly and treat the process and members of the university involved in the process with respect at all times, in line with the
Unacceptable Behaviour Policy
. Where a student is being represented by a third party, the
Policy on Communication with Third Parties
also applies.
Students’ Union Advice Team
• To provide independent support and guidance to students wishing to use this code.
Supporters (for students)
• A supporter may take notes on the student’s behalf, make representations on their behalf and ask questions, but may not answer questions on their behalf.
Investigations and Resolution Team
• To administer the handling of level 2 and 3 complaints and assess their eligibility for consideration.
• To provide information to students on the process and progress of their complaint.
• To provide advice and training to staff members on the process
• To issue outcome responses to level 2 and 3 complaints within the timescales of this code (or advise the student of any delays)
• To ensure that those appointed to investigate and respond to complaints are free from prejudice and bias or a reasonable perception of prejudice and bias.
• To review and update this code of practice.
• To maintain records of complaints and to provide reports to university committees as required.
Those receiving and considering a complaint at the early resolution  stage (level 1)
• To approach a complaint with an open mind and to act fairly, proportionately and reasonably in relation to the complaint
• To issue outcome responses to level 1 complaints within the timescales of this code (or advise the student of any delays) and provide a copy to the Investigations and Resolution team
• To uphold the university's principles of equality, diversity and inclusion.
• To access training opportunities related to the student complaints process and keep up to date with developments to this code of practice.
Investigating Officer
• To declare any potential conflicts of interest  before commencing an investigation.
• To approach an investigation with an open mind and to act fairly, proportionately and reasonably in the course of the investigation.
• To uphold the university's principles of equality, diversity and inclusion.
• To access training opportunities related to the student complaints process and keep up to date with developments to this code of practice.
• To prepare an investigation report and submit this to the Investigations and Resolution team within the timescales of this code (or advise of any delays)
Those making decisions on complaints (such as Head of School/Department or Service, Faculty Pro Vice Chancellor or Registrar)
• To declare any potential conflicts of interest.
• To ensure that an investigation is carried out. The investigation may be delegated.
• To approach a complaint with an open mind.
• To make timely, fair,  and proportionate and reasonable decisions and uphold the university's principles of equality, diversity and inclusion.
Quality and Standards Committee
• To approve the Student Complaints Code of Practice as part of the university’s Quality Manual and to have oversight of the activity of the Investigations and Resolution team.
• To receive and review reports relating to complaint handling at the university.
3.2 Support for students
Students are encouraged to seek advice from the Students’ Union Advice team at any stage in the process, including seeking advice on how to present their case effectively. The students’ union is independent from the university and has specialists who can provide impartial advice.
If a student needs adjustments to support them to access any stage of the student complaints process, they should email the Investigations and Resolution team at
studentcomplaints@nottingham.ac.uk
outlining what adjustments would be useful.
Students have the right to bring a supporter to meetings arranged during any stage of the complaints process. The supporter must be one of the following:
• An education adviser from Students’ Union Advice
• A fellow student
• A member of staff
• A union representative (e.g. BMA, RCN).
Further information can be found in the roles and responsibilities section of this code.
The university provides a number of support services which may be helpful to students making a complaint under this code. Information about the services available can be found on the Wellbeing Service webpages . This includes pastoral support available from Support and Wellbeing.
Wellbeing Service Webpages
4. Procedural steps
4.1 Overview of the student complaints process
The student complaints process has three levels which must be completed in order. These are:
• Level 1: early resolution at a local level
• Level 2: formal consideration by a head of school/service
• Level 3: paper-based review by a Faculty Pro Vice Chancellor/Registrar (UK)
After the internal university processes have been exhausted, complainants can request to have their complaint independently reviewed by the OIA.
OIA website
4.2 Expected time limits
The OIA Good Practice Framework stipulates that the handling of complaints will normally be completed within 90 calendar days of the start of the formal stage (level 2). This timeframe requires students to meet any deadlines set by the university. Delays in information or evidence being provided will require this timeframe to be extended. If a student requires an extension to any of the timescales set out in this section, they must request this from the Investigations and Resolution team prior to the deadline by emailing
studentcomplaints@nottingham.ac.uk
.
The table below refers to working days. This means working days at the University of Nottingham, which can be checked on the
bank holidays and closure days webpage
. If a student requires support with calculating the latest date on which their complaint can be submitted, they can email the Investigations and Resolution team at
studentcomplaints@nottingham.ac.uk
.
Expected time limits
Student
Investigations and Resolution Team
Outcome
Level 1
Complaint should be raised within 30 working days of the cause for complaint
No involvement
A response will normally be communicated within 30 working days of the complaint being received. If this is not possible, the staff member investigating the complaint will provide an explanation for the delay and an alternative timescale will be issued to the complainant.
Level 2
Complaint should be raised within 30 working days of the outcome of the level 1 complaint
Will acknowledge receipt of complaint within five working days of submission
A response will normally be sent within 30 working days of receipt of the complaint form. This will be communicated by the Investigations and Resolution team. If this is not possible, an explanation for the delay will be provided and an alternative timescale will be issued to the complainant.
Level 3
Complaint should be raised within ten working days  of the outcome of the level 2 complaint
Will acknowledge receipt of complaint within five working days of submission
A response will normally be sent within 20 working days of receipt of the complaint form. This will be communicated by the Investigations and Resolution team. If this is not possible, an explanation for the delay will be provided and an alternative timescale will be issued to the complainant. At this point, the student has completed the university’s complaints process and can request a Completion of Procedures letter if they wish to raise their complaint with the Office of the Independent Adjudicator.
OIA
Complaint should be raised within 12 months of the date of issue of the Completion of Procedures letter
No direct involvement with complainant
Variable
If a student fails to proceed within the given deadlines of the complaints process, they may not be able to progress through the internal complaints mechanisms of the university.
Complaints submitted outside of the timescales stipulated in this code will only be considered in the most exceptional circumstances and where there is good reason, supported by evidence, for the late submission.
4.3 Standard of evidence
Independent, reliable evidence is normally required to accompany a student complaint at levels 2 and 3. Evidence can be provided at level 1 (early resolution) and students are encouraged to provide any evidence that is available to them; however, it is not required in order to make a level 1 complaint. Details of the types of evidence often submitted as part of a complaint can be found in section 4.4 of this code.
Evidence  submitted as part of a complaint should:
• Where written by appropriately qualified professionals who are independent of the student, be on headed paper and signed and dated by the author. Evidence presented by email may be acceptable if the email has been sent by the author from the official domain name of the author's organisation. Students should note that services, such as medical services or university support services, are unlikely to be able to provide evidence if the student has had no engagement with that service.
• Confirm that the circumstances were witnessed on the relevant date as opposed to being reported retrospectively. Evidence reported by the author as being informed retrospectively about the circumstances will not be acceptable evidence.
• Be in English. It is the student's responsibility to provide supporting documentation and any translation should be undertaken by an accredited translator (e.g. be a member of the Association of Translation Companies). Any associated costs must be met by the student.
As part of a complaint, staff can consider evidence supplied by other members of university staff known to the student, such as a personal tutor, a staff member from the Residential Experience team, or a staff member from the Support and Wellbeing team.
The university reserves the right to take such steps as are deemed necessary to verify the evidence submitted, without prior notification. Where the university is unable to authenticate the material to its satisfaction, the evidence may not be accepted. The university reserves the right to request sight of original documents.  If there is evidence that a student has fraudulently presented documentation to the university, the matter will usually be referred for consideration under the academic misconduct or disciplinary processes.
4.4 Responsibilities of students when raising a complaint
Level 1: Early resolution
Students should try to resolve a complaint by raising it directly and promptly with the person/department concerned. In some circumstances, they may prefer to approach a different member of staff e.g. personal tutor, module convenor; however, if this staff member is not well placed to consider the complaint, they should support the student to contact the most relevant person/department.. If  they are not sure who to raise a complaint with, there is a list of key contacts available on the complaints webpages.
Although level 1 complaints can be raised verbally or in writing, students are encouraged to put their complaints in writing to ensure that there is a record of the complaint and to allow both the student and the recipient to refer to the concerns raised.
When raising a level 1 complaint, students must:
• State that they are raising a level 1 complaint in accordance with this code.
• Clearly explain what the problem is, the impact it has had, and the outcome they are seeking.
The university provides a level 1 complaint form. While students are not required to use this to make a level 1 complaint, it is a helpful tool that supports them to clarify the key parts of their complaint and the outcome they are seeking.
Complaints must be raised as soon as possible and, at the latest, within the timelines referred to in section 4.2 of this code.
Level 2: Formal consideration by Head of School/Service
If a student is dissatisfied with the outcome of their level 1 complaint, they can escalate their complaint to level 2.
Level 2 complaints must be raised by completing the level 2 complaint form which can be accessed through the complaints webpages. If a student needs adjustments to support them to access the university’s complaints process, they should email the Investigations and Resolution team at studentcomplaints@nottingham.ac.uk outlining what adjustments would be useful.
When raising a level 2 complaint, students must:
• Provide a clear explanation of how they attempted to resolve their complaint informally at level 1. This should include:
o A specific date (or dates) when they raised their complaint
o A named member of staff to whom they reported their complaint
o Details of why the complaint was not resolved to their satisfaction at level 1.
o Copies of any written communication or evidence of completion of the level 1 stage of the complaints process.
• Clearly outline the reasons for their complaint, including details of any impact, and the outcome they are seeking. Complaints that do not outline a clear rationale will not be accepted for consideration. If the Investigations and Resolution team case handler (who carries out an initial review of complaints to confirm they are eligible under this code) believes that a submission is unclear or unnecessarily long, the student will be asked to resubmit the form in a manner that enables proper consideration of the complaint to take place.
• Gather evidence in support of their complaint, ensuring that they include important dates, times and other details that are needed to assess the eligibility of their complaint. Complaints without relevant evidence will not be accepted for consideration. This could include, but is not limited to, the following:
o A timeline of events (if they can’t remember the exact dates, the student can provide a rough timeline of events)
o Reference to relevant policies, procedures and/or regulations
o Letters/emails
o Evidence from others, such as independent medical evidence, reports by professionals or witness statements
o Screenshots
o The outcome of an investigation under another University of Nottingham process.
• Provide all evidence relevant to their complaint at the point of submitting your level 2 complaint form. The evidence must be:
o Clearly labelled and referenced within their level 2 complaint form
o Written in English (or translated into English)
o Be on headed paper and signed and dated by the author, or have been sent from the official domain name of the author’s organisation (when evidence has been written by appropriately qualified independent professionals)
Level 2 complaints must be raised as soon as possible and, at the latest, within 30 working days of the receipt of the outcome of their level 1 complaint.
If you a student is making a subject access request (SAR) as part of a complaint, they are expected to submit this as soon as possible after the outcome of their level 1 complaint and they must provide evidence of submission as part of their level 2 complaint. Information about how to make a subject access request can be found on the
data protection webpages
. The investigation of a level 2 complaint cannot be delayed while a student awaits for the outcome of a SAR, but the student can provide relevant information they receive from a SAR after submitting their complaint form.
The complaint will be investigated by someone who has not previously been involved in the issues that have been raised. This is to ensure that each case is looked at by someone without prior knowledge of the circumstances who can consider the issues being raised in an objective way.
Level 3: Review by Faculty Pro Vice Chancellor/Registrar
If a student is dissatisfied with the outcome of their level 2 complaint, they can escalate their complaint to level 3 on one or more of the following grounds:
• they believe that a procedural irregularity has occurred in the handling and/or the investigation of the level 2 complaint
• they are in possession of additional evidence which may have affected the outcome at level 2 but was unavailable at the time of the original level 2 investigation
• they have a compelling argument to demonstrate that the outcome at level 2 was unreasonable. Claims of this nature must be supported by evidence and a clear rationale for the unreasonable nature of the decision.
Claims that amount simply to an expression of dissatisfaction with the decision  will not be considered.
Level 3 complaints must be raised by completing the level 3 complaint form found on the complaints webpage. If a student needs adjustments to support them to access the university’s complaints process, they should contact email studentcomplaints@nottingham.ac.uk outlining what adjustments would be useful.
When raising a level 3 complaint, students must:
• Identify the ground(s) under which they are making their complaint (as set out above).
• Provide evidence in support of their claim. Where evidence was not provided as part of their level 2 complaint, they must explain why this evidence was not available at the time of their level 2 complaint.
Level 3 complaints must be raised as soon as possible and, at the latest, within the timescales set out in section 4.2 of this code. The student’s level 2 complaint outcome will confirm the date by which they must submit their level 3 complaint form.
4.5 Responsibilities of staff responding to complaints
Level 1: Early resolution
Staff dealing with complaints are encouraged, whenever practical, to meet with the student to establish the precise cause of dissatisfaction, to explore the remedy sought by the student and to foster a mutual understanding of the issues involved. If a staff member receiving a complaint believes they are not well placed to consider the complaint, they should support the student to contact the most relevant person/department.
When responding to a level 1 complaint, staff must:
• Listen to the complaint and try to resolve it in a straightforward, reasonable and prompt manner
• Keep notes of any meetings and a record of the agreed outcome, and ensure these are shared with the student
Staff are required to provide a written response to a level 1 complaint. This response must  confirm that this is the outcome of their level 1 complaint and advise the student of their opportunities to escalate their complaint to level 2 of the complaints process if they remain dissatisfied . Staff should provide details about the steps that have been taken to consider and seek to resolve the complaint. The response must be shared with the Investigations and Resolution team.
Complaints must be responded to as soon as possible and, at the latest, within the timescales set out in section 4.2 of this code.
Level 2: Formal consideration by Head of School/Service
On receipt of a level 2 complaint, the Investigations and Resolution team will undertake an initial evaluation to check that the complaint is submitted under the right procedures, within the appropriate deadlines, and in the required format with supporting evidence. The Investigations and Resolution team will administer the complaint and will provide information and support regarding the process to complainants and staff at all stages.
The complaint will be referred to the appropriate person in the school, usually the head of school/service. If the subject of the original complaint is the head of school/service, another head of school/service or their line manager will conduct the review. If the subject of the complaint is a member of the University Executive Board (UEB), another member of UEB will conduct the review.
The head of school/service or other relevant individual (as outlined above) will ensure that an investigation is carried out.  The investigation may be delegated to an appropriate member of staff. The investigation and its outcome must be fair and reasonable. If an investigator who has been allocated by the head of school/service has prior knowledge of the case and/or there is a conflict of interest, they should inform the Investigations and Resolution team or the head of school/service immediately.
It may be appropriate for the investigator to meet with the student and/or other parties named in the paperwork. Should the investigator wish to meet with the student, they will contact them to propose this course of action and organise a meeting. The complainant will be offered the opportunity to bring a supporter to this meeting as outlined in section 3.2 of this code.
A report of the investigation will be prepared before a written response is provided to the complainant. The report and associated appendices will be provided to the student with the outcome letter.
If the head of school/service partially or fully upholds the complaint, they may decide on whatever redress they think appropriate, bearing in mind the outcome sought by the student.
Upon conclusion of the level 2 complaint, the student will be notified of the opportunity to escalate their complaint to level 3 of the complaints procedure.
All outcome responses to level 2 complaints will be issued by the Investigations and Resolution team.
Level 3: Review by Faculty Pro Vice Chancellor/Registrar
On receipt of a level 3 complaint form, the Investigations and Resolution team will undertake an initial evaluation to check that the complaint is submitted within the appropriate deadlines, meets the grounds for a level 3 review and is in the required format with supporting evidence. A complaint without adequate grounds and evidence will be dismissed.
If the student provides evidence to support the stated grounds, the complaint will be referred to the faculty Pro Vice Chancellor or Registrar for review. If the level 2 complaint was reviewed by the faculty Pro Vice Chancellor, it will be referred to the Pro Vice Chancellor of a different faculty. Where the level 2 complaint was considered by a head of service, the Level 3 complaint will be considered by the Registrar, rather than a faculty Pro Vice Chancellor.  The Registrar/Pro Vice Chancellor may appoint an appropriate nominee to undertake the review on their behalf.
The review stage will not usually consider the issues afresh or involve further investigation. However, in the case that new evidence has been submitted and accepted, additional investigation may be required. In reaching a decision, the reviewer is expected to be fair and reasonable.
If the complaint is successful and the level 2 decision is amended, in full or in part, both the student and the head of school/service will receive a written explanation of the decision.
If the complaint is unsuccessful and the level 2 decision is confirmed, the student will receive a written response giving reasons and a ‘Completion of Procedures’ letter (see section 5.1 of this code) will be issued.
All outcome responses to level 3 complaints will be issued by the Investigations and Resolution team.
Decisions regarding liability for fees or financial reimbursement
The refund/waiver  of a student’s tuition fees or payment of compensation can be considered as an appropriate outcome at any stage of the complaints process, including the early resolution stage (level 1).
Where a school/department or service deems the refund or waiver of a student's tuition fees or a payment of compensation to be the appropriate redress following a complaint made by a student, the liability for the fees will transfer to the school/department or service against which the complaint was made. Payments or waivers must be processed via the Investigations and Resolution team. To organise a payment or waiver, details of the relevant circumstances and any associated documentation, including authorisation from the head of school/department or service, must be forwarded to studentcomplaints@nottingham.ac.uk so that they can be forwarded to the Director of Registry  and Academic Affairs or a nominee, who has authority on behalf of the Registrar to approve such requests.
Where a refund, waiver or payment of compensation is imposed on a school/department or service as a result of a level 3 complaint or OIA outcome, the school/department or service will be notified as soon as the outcome has been determined.
5. Internal, statutory or regulatory requirements
5.1 Office of the Independent Adjudicator
Once the internal complaints process has been completed, if a student is still not satisfied with the outcome and there are no further steps available to them, they will be issued with a formal ‘Completion of Procedures’ letter. This provides a formal confirmation that they have exhausted the internal complaints procedure and is required before a complaint may be considered by the Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA).
The OIA operates externally to the university. It will not normally look at a complaint unless and until all relevant internal complaints procedures have been exhausted. Further information is available on the OIA website.
OIA website
5.2 Recording and monitoring of complaints
It is important that complaints are monitored in order to improve the student experience. The Investigations and Resolution team will record and provide reports to indicate the nature of complaints and complainants, and resultant action. Such reports will:
• Feed into monitoring and evaluation at various levels (department, school, faculty, and university)
• Feed directly into appropriate university-wide committees
• Assist in identifying problems and trends across the university
• Form the basis of positive publicity, in demonstrating that identified issues have been resolved
• Be made available to the students’ union.
5.3 Review of this code
This code will be reviewed every two years by the Head of Casework in Registry and Academic Affairs
6. Related policies, procedures, standards and guidance
Policy on Communication with Third Parties
Unacceptable Behaviour Policy
Code of Discipline
Academic appeals policy and procedure
Academic misconduct policy and procedure
Applicant complaint policy and procedure
Apprentice Complaints Policy
Apprentice Complaints Procedure
Admissions feedback, appeals and complaints
Student Complaints Code of Practice (downloadable pdf version)
Student Complaints Code of Practice
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
25 September 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/pol-on-feedback-to-students.aspx
Header: Policy on feedback to students
Intro: This page contains the University's policy on feedback that is provided to students for pieces of assessed work, including coursework and written examinations. Its contents are applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Policy on feedback to students - The University of NottinghamPolicy on feedback to students
This page contains the University's policy on feedback that is provided to students for pieces of assessed work, including coursework and written examinations. Its contents are applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
Schools/Departments must ensure that where feasible, appropriate feedback is provided to students on assessed work in order to facilitate improvement and promote learning. Feedback must be related to the assessment criteria, in order to help students identify areas for improvement as well as commending them for evident achievement.
Schools/module convenors must specify the nature and extent of feedback they can expect and whether this will be accompanied by the return of assessed work.
The records which are used as part of its marking procedure could also be used for providing feedback.
Schools/Departments must ensure that feedback is provided at times which are appropriate to enable the student to benefit from such feedback.
Where students undertaking work are encouraged to seek comment prior to formal submission, clear guidance must be given as to when it is no longer appropriate for staff to continue giving feedback.
1. Assessed coursework
Includes:
provision and format; marks location; extenuating circumstances; returning of marks; definition of work day
Feedback should be given on all forms of coursework where practicable. Feedback should be written and supplemented where appropriate with oral comments.
Where coursework has been submitted electronically, feedback must be provided electronically. The only exception to this is where a member of staff has a reasonable adjustment.
Where appropriate, it is good practice for marks for coursework not submitted electronically to be fed back on electronically. An exception would be made where a member of staff has a reasonable adjustment.
Marks for all coursework, however submitted, must be uploaded to Moodle.
Marked coursework and associated feedback will normally be returned to students within 20 working days
1
of the published submission deadline for Qualifying Stage modules and 15 working days for all other undergraduate and postgraduate taught modules. This will be 28 working days for UoNO learners. Students submitting work before the published deadline should not have an expectation that early submission will result in earlier return of work.
Where coursework will not be returned within the time frames above for good reason - for example, in circumstances where a student has been granted an extension of the deadline, unexpected absence of the module convenor or assigned marker, lengthy pieces of coursework and others - students must be informed of the timescale for the return of the coursework and associated feedback.
Where a student has claimed extenuating circumstances and has been granted a further attempt at an assessment, resulting in the mark being expunged from the record, this procedure will not normally apply.
In normal circumstances, marked coursework and associated feedback must be returned to students before the main University examination periods. If necessary, coursework can be returned after the main University examination periods. However it is likely that this will then be outside of the normal time frames (see above). It is good practice to inform students in advance of submission of the timescale for the return of the coursework and associated feedback. If it is necessary for students to receive feedback on coursework during the exam period, then it must be returned without the mark. Summative marks should only be given after the exam period.
For these purposes, coursework refers to all assessments other than unseen written examinations taken during the main University examination periods.
1
A working day is a day when the University is open for normal business. Weekends and University Closure Days are not regarded as working days. However, periods outside of University term (vacation periods) are regarded as working days (unless they are weekends or University Closure Days). Similarly, the booking of Annual Leave by a staff member does not change the status of a day being a working day.
2. Written examinations
Includes:
examination script instructions; student opportunities to receive satisfactory feedback; optional examination feedback form
Hard copies of examination scripts must not be returned to students. However wherever it is feasible and helpful for students to discuss their examination performance with staff and with reference to marked scripts, this can be facilitated. The purpose of this is for feedback, not to challenge the marks awarded.
All students must be given a clearly advertised opportunity to receive feedback on their examinations. Where no other suitable mechanisms exist for providing feedback the module convenor must supply on the web a generic feedback report (which need be no more than one side of A4) for each module to the relevant group of students which:
Highlights examination questions on which students' performance could be improved
Suggests strategies for improving performance in those questions
Gives general comments about technique.
If you require a template, please use or consult the following:
Examination feedback form - template
3. Release of marks
Includes:
feedback upon request; expectations on Schools/Departments; timings
Each candidate is entitled to be informed of the marks they have been awarded in all examinations and assessments which contribute to the award of a degree or other qualification. This includes all Foundation Year, Qualifying and Parts I, II and III marks.
All students failing a module must be given feedback on request which, as a minimum (though only where relevant), comprises a breakdown of their marks question-by-question.
Schools/Departments must ensure that students are informed how and when marks/results will be released to them. Personal tutors, course tutors, examinations officers, or other delegated authorities in Schools/Departments are permitted to present marks as part of the process of feedback on academic performance prior to release online. In the case of marks for Autumn Semester examinations the candidate must be made fully aware that the marks are provisional until they have been finalised by the relevant Examinations Board at its annual meeting, which most commonly occurs in June/July for undergraduates and in the autumn for postgraduate students taking taught modules.
Marks must not be published on School/Department noticeboards and their confidentiality will be protected within the University as far as possible.
4. University use and storage of personal data
Guidance on the examination information students are entitled to can be found at the link below:
Privacy Information for Students and Applicants
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 September 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/pacer.aspx
Header: Periodic Assurance and Continuous Enhancement Review (PACER)
Intro: This page provides information about the purpose, schedule and assessment of core teaching and learning activities of the Periodic Assurance and Continuous Enhancement Review (PACER). This information and its associated documentation may be of interest for staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Periodic Assurance and Continuous Enhancement Review (PACER) - The University of NottinghamPeriodic Assurance and Continuous Enhancement Review (PACER)
This page provides information about the purpose, schedule and assessment of core teaching and learning activities of the Periodic Assurance and Continuous Enhancement Review (PACER). This information and its associated documentation may be of interest for staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
Periodic Assurance and Continuous Enhancement Reviews (PACERs) are UoN's periodic quality assurance (QA) and enhancement (QE) review process. It is a periodic programme of peer review, in which academic Schools and Departments of UoN focus on Quality Assurance and Quality Enhancement in their Education and Student Experience (ESE) provision.
The philosophy underpinning the PACER is one of peer support, collaboration and educational enhancement through the sharing of good practice in ESE, teaching and curriculum leadership. Through the review visit and the subsequent report and follow up, the process aims to enable colleagues in Schools/Departments who are facing challenges in specific areas of their provision to learn from peers with expertise or proven good performance in those same areas.
The remit of the PACERs is limited to UG and PGT programmes, but the impact of potential changes can affect other provision such as Apprenticeships or PGR delivery. All recommendations should consider the wider impact they have on delivery to avoid unintended negative consequence
Purpose
The purpose of the PACER process is:
To ensure that Schools/Departments are providing a high-quality student experience, that safeguards academic standards and delivers good outcomes for all students.
To ensure that the programmes delivered by Schools/Departments are aligned with the Office for Students (OfS) B Conditions and are adherent to sector norms.
To support colleagues in the performance of their Education and Student Experience activity in a constructive and expertise-driven manner.
To highlight where improvements to provision are possible in order to enhance the student learning experience and encourage the development of more inclusive approaches to Teaching and Learning
Assessment of core teaching and learning activities
1. In advance of each academic session, a review of performance in key ESE indicators is conducted by the PACER Planning Board of the Schools currently in the pool of Schools/Department eligible for review. The membership of this board should include;
PVC for ESE (chair)
APVC for Teaching and Curriculum Leadership
Director of Careers and Employability
Chair of Quality and Standards Committee
Associate Director, Educational Excellence Team
UNM Representative (as agreed by the Vice Provost for Teaching and Learning)
UNNC Representative (as agreed by the Vice Provost for Teaching and Learning)
Head of Policy and Operations, Deputy Registrars
Curriculum Nottingham Representative
Any other members as agreed by the chair, including delegates.
2. Example indicators that will normally factor into the review of performance are listed below and are predominantly the external measures of our performance, as monitored by the UNUK regulator the OfS;
Student Outcomes (Including Continuation, Completion, Progression, Attainment, TEF-specific subject level outcome data)
Student Experience (National Student Survey, SEM, PTES)
Quality measures, e.g number of QSC cases (agreed by QSC)
3. The review of performance should look longitudinally at the data sets. A single year’s performance should not alone be considered a trigger for review. Nor should a single year’s performance be considered as a reason why a review is not justified.
4. The PACER Chair, as nominated by the PACER Planning Board, will recommend a review panel for each visit. As far as possible, the constitution of the panel should be matched to the needs of the visit, based on the factors that contributed to the decision to conduct the review. For example, if a School’s Assessment and Feedback scores in NSS and Awarding Gaps are the focus of the review, then it may draw on those with provable expertise in those fields.
Key documentation
PACER Technical Document
For more information, please contact the team at: periodic-review@nottingham.ac.uk
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
24 July 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/regs-on-conflict-of-interest.aspx
Header: Regulation on conflict of interest
Intro: This page contains the University's regulation on conflict of interest with regard to the delivery of End Point Assessment (EPA) and the appointment of Independent Assessors and External Assessors for Apprenticeship Integrated End-Point Assessment. This information is only relevant to staff and students based at the UK campus.
Content:
Regulation on conflict of interest - The University of NottinghamRegulation on conflict of interest
This page contains the University's regulation on conflict of interest with regard to the delivery of End Point Assessment (EPA) and the appointment of Independent Assessors and External Assessors for Apprenticeship Integrated End-Point Assessment. This information is only relevant to staff and students based at the UK campus.Where a specific integrated apprenticeship programme’s End-Point Assessment plan makes references to other specified assessment roles within the marking and assessment team arrangements, the responsibilities noted below apply to all defined roles within that team.
Overview and Scope
The University of Nottingham as an apprenticeship End Point Assessment Organisation (EPAO) is required to deliver an independent, objective assessment of knowledge, skills and behaviours as set out in the relevant assessment plan that accompanies each apprenticeship standard.
This regulation applies to those apprenticeship End Point Assessments undertaken where the University is the EPAO  and applies to all staff taking part in or supporting an EPA. This includes individuals involved with any aspect of the delivery of an EPA, and also in the creation, distribution, marking or any other activity connected with tests and assessments, resources or services used within the EPA.
Explicitly included in scope for this policy are all employees, contractors, agency or associate staff, verifiers/examiners and other support roles involved in making judgments in relation to the EPA outcome
1. Purpose
1.1 EPAs are required to be conducted impartially with clear delineation between those teaching on the apprenticeship and those carrying out the EPA.
1.2 This regulation outlines how the University manages and mitigates perceived or actual conflict of interest in the delivery of EPA
2. Key Principles
2.1 A conflict of interest arises when an individual, or the University of Nottingham ,UK campus (UNUK) as a whole (including individuals or organisations contracted to deliver EPA on behalf of UNUK) has competing interests which could compromise, or appear to compromise, the outcome of an End Point Assessment.
2.2 Examples of actual or perceived conflicts of interest include (but are not confined to)
i.   is currently involved in delivery of the apprenticeship programme and/or on-programme assessment for the standard for which the University is acting as EPAO or has previously been involved in apprenticeship programm e delivery and/or programme assessment for the standard unless all students taught or assessed by the individual have completed their programme.
ii.   has a position of authority in one organisation that conflicts with their interests in another organisation.
iii.   has a prior link with the apprentice, or a link with their employer over the preceding five-year period (including having friends or relatives working with the apprentice or involved in programme delivery).
iv.   has friends, relatives or colleagues taking the apprenticeship programme to which the EPA is aligned.
v.   has personal interests, paid or unpaid, in the employer organisation undergoing the EPA.
vi.   has any other interest(s) that may compromise their assessment decisions.
vii.   has links to or works (paid or unpaid) for the same organisation as the apprentice.
viii.   stands to derive personal or business gain from the outcome of the assessment; or is working for an organisation in direct competition with the apprentice’s employer.
2.3 As an End Point Assessment Organisation, the University will ensure:
i. That delivery of  End-point assessment (EPA) is  in accordance with the apprenticeship standard(programme) specific EPA plan.  The Programme delivery team will be clearly separated from the decision on whether the apprentice has passed their EPA and the final grade they are awarded.
ii.  That anyone involved in the EPA process is free from any conflicts of interest that could adversely affect their judgement or objectivity in administering and undertaking robust and consistent EPA (in line with the requirements set out in the Assessment Plan for the Apprenticeship Standard).
iii.   That the recruitment process for those involved in EPA clearly set out the individual’s obligation to declare any actual or perceived conflict of interest.
iv.   That any involvement in the advice, support or training of the apprentice or apprenticeship programmes provided by the University does not conflict with the independence of the EPA process.
v.   Processes for the conduct of EPA and the identification and management of actual or perceived conflicts of interest are reviewed at least annually.
vi.   EPA assessment materials are treated as confidential and kept secure by those involved in the creation, administration and implementation of the EPA process, who must be independent of the apprentice.
vii.   That there is no collusion with employers, apprentices, other EPAOs, or those providing the apprenticeship programme, in the delivery of the EPA. This includes offering or accepting any incentives or inducements in relation to the delivery of EPA.
2.4 Programme Directors or nominee are responsible for the early identification of, and planning for, conflict of interest as part of their responsibilities and the planning for every individual EPA.
2.5 Where an EPA is to be hosted at the employer or provider organisation premises, the Programme Directors or nominee must, as part of the planning process, review any conflict of interest risks and, where identified, set out the actions required to avoid potential conflicts of interest in the EPA plan. Any alternative venue will need prior approval to be designated as a an official examination venue.
2.6 Individuals are expected to notify their Programme Director  of nominee of any new conflicts of interest as they arise, to be recorded and managed in line with this regulation .
2.7 Concerns relating to actual or perceived conflicts of interest can be raised with Programme Directors, or nominee (Public Interest Disclosure) Code (see section 3 below).
2.8 Records of action in response to actual or perceived conflicts of interest will be retained in accordance with the University’s Document Retention Schedule.
University of Nottingham Document Retention Schedule
2.9 Independent Assessors
Includes:
Employer, apprentice, integrated End-Point Assessment
2.9.1 Overview
Conflict of interest is a key consideration in the appointment of Independent Assessors (IAs). The relationship between the assessor, the employer, the apprentice and the University will be considered within the appointment process as detailed in the guidance available for the recruitment of Independent and External Assessors. All IAs are required to declare conflicts of interest at the time of application to the University. Once appointed, IAs will be given names of the apprentices they are expected to assess for them to review and declare any conflict of interests. Upon reappointment the Independent Assessor will be required to declare if there has been any change of circumstances that may have bearing on their reappointment.
2.9.2 Restrictions and potential conflicts of interest
Anyone who is included in the following categories or circumstances may not be appointed:
i. a member of a governing body or committee of the appointing institution or one of its collaborative partners, or a current employee of the appointing institution; in an exceptional circumstance, an internal assessor may be employed by the University but must not have any interaction with the apprentice in this instance it would require Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) Approval
ii.   anyone with a close professional, contractual or personal relationship with a member of staff or apprentice involved with the programme of study or close connections to the employer
iii.   anyone required to assess colleagues who are recruited as apprentices to the programme of study
iv.   anyone who is, or knows they will be, in a position to significantly influence the future of apprentices on the programme of study
v.   anyone who is, or has been, significantly involved in current substantive collaborative research activities with a member of staff closely involved in the delivery, management or assessment of the programme(s) in question within the last three years
vi.   former staff or apprentices of the institution unless a period of five years has elapsed, and all apprentices taught by or with the independent assessor have completed their programme(s)
vii.   where a reciprocal arrangement involving cognate programmes at another institution is proposed, these cases will be referred to QSC for consideration
viii.   the succession of an IA by a colleague from the assessor’s home department and institution or organisation
ix.   the appointment of more than one IA from the same department of the same institution or organisation.
2.10 External Assessors
Includes:
Employer, apprentice, integrated End-Point Assessment
2.10.1 Overview
Conflict of interest is a key consideration in the appointment of External Assessors (EAs). The relationship between the assessor, the employer, the apprentice and the University will be considered within the appointment process as detailed as detailed in the guidance available for the recruitment of Independent and External Assessors and managed by Registry and Academic Affairs. All EAs are required to declare conflicts of interest at the time of application to the University. Once appointed, EAs will be given names of the apprentices they are expected to assess for them to review and declare any conflict of interests.  Upon reappointment the External Assessor will be required to advise if there are been any change of circumstances that may have bearing on their appointment.
2.10.2 Restrictions and potential conflicts of interest
Anyone who is included in the following categories or circumstances may not be appointed:
i.   a member of a governing body or committee of the appointing institution or one of its collaborative partners, or a current employee of the appointing institution
ii.   anyone with a close professional, contractual or personal relationship with a member of staff or apprentice involved with the programme of study close connections to the employer
iii.   anyone required to assess colleagues who are recruited as apprentices to the programme of study
iv.   anyone who is, or knows they will be, in a position to significantly influence the future of apprentices on the programme of study
v.   anyone who is, or has been, significantly involved in current substantive collaborative research activities with a member of staff closely involved in the delivery, management or assessment of the programme(s) in question within the last three years
vi.   former staff or apprentices of the institution unless a period of five years has elapsed, and all apprentices taught by or with the external assessor have completed their programme(s)
vii.   where a reciprocal arrangement involving cognate programmes at another institution is proposed, these cases will be referred to QSC for consideration
viii.   the succession of an EA by a colleague from the assessor’s home department and institution and/or organisation
ix.   the appointment of more than one EA from the same department of the same organisation/institution.
3. Related Regulation, Policy and Procedure
End Point Assessment Process
Whistleblowing (Public Interest Disclosure Code)
4. Version Control Table
Version control table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Regulation reviewed and updated to reflect the wider EPA delivery outside of the recruitment IA and EA also reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework based on content last modified on 24 April 2023
QSC
July 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
15 July 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/student-engagement-and-representation/unm-student-staff-fora.aspx
Header: UNM Student Staff Fora
Intro: This page provides information on the Student Staff Fora and about how they provide a platform for the student feedback in UNM. Student Staff Fora are the main academic representation and feedback system at the University of Nottingham and are jointly delivered by the University and the Students' Association (SA). This information is relevant to staff and students in the Malaysia campus.
Content:
UNM Student Staff Fora - The University of NottinghamUNM Student Staff Fora
This page provides information on the Student Staff Fora and about how they provide a platform for the student feedback in UNM. Student Staff Fora are the main academic representation and feedback system at the University of Nottingham and are jointly delivered by the University and the Students' Association (SA). This information is relevant to staff and students in the Malaysia campus.Purpose
The purposes of the Student Staff Forum (SSF) are to:
To ensure that the feedback and concerns of students about their courses of study are represented to the academic staff throughout the academic year;
To capture the views of students so that they are given proper weight in the processes of course and module review for co-creation and improvement of curriculum;
To provide a forum for the exchange of ideas and information between the student body and the school, department or division in relation to student education, teaching and learning experience and development
Essential information
Includes
: general management; agendas, reports and action points
General
A Student Staff Forum (SSF) must meet at least three times per academic cycle, with at least one meeting each Autumn Semester. School and Chair can call for extra meetings on needs basis.
Each school, department or division, and students’ association should follow the terms of reference and Student Staff Forum guidance document on the composition of its SSF.
Course or School representatives are responsible for effectively collecting feedback from their fellow students, representing their views at meetings, and disseminating feedback from the meetings. Schools, departments and divisions often via Senior Tutor must facilitate SSF by providing a mechanism for students to email or contact in some other way their fellow students.
Course or School representative will chair the meeting, facilitated by School Senior Tutor.
Course and/or School representative work with guidance from the Senior Tutor to prepare and finalise the meeting agenda.
SA Education Officer together with the SA Postgraduate Officer are responsible for the management of the training and development activities for course and student representatives aimed to prepare and provide guidance related to SSF purposes, structure and processes with support from the Campus Senior Tutor.
Key staff members from the relevant department, faculty, or school (where applicable) including SA Representatives (e.g. Education Officer) may be invited to join when necessary.
The School, Department or Division must display minutes of SSF meetings, external examiner reports and school responses to those reports on an appropriate forum that is clear and readily available to students (such as Moodle)
Agendas, reports and action points
The meeting agenda must be published and distributed before the meeting.
There should be a simple mechanism for both staff and students to have items placed on the agenda for discussion.
All meetings must have an agenda that contains the key topics/issues for co-creation, as well as any other key information that needs to be distributed to School Senior Tutor and Director of Teaching and Learning through Course and/ or School Representatives.
After every meeting, and at the end of each Semester, all SSF minutes must be made available and accessible to all staff and students at the UNM central SSF repository. SSF minutes must be taken into consideration in the school's annual monitoring processes and reporting.
It is not expected that every action requested by Course and/ or School Representatives will be implemented, but it is expected that they should be given proper consideration and the grounds for non-implementation should be explained.
Glossary
Academic cycle refers to the commencement of the first semester to the last semester in a twelve-month period. Foundation academic cycle starts in April and ends in March the next year. Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught Course academic cycles start in September and end in August the next year
For more information, please refer the following:
Student Staff Forum Terms of Reference
Student Staff Forum Guidance Document
Student Staff Forum Agenda Template
Student Staff Forum Meeting Minutes Template
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
16 September 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/apprenticeship-end-point-assessment-process.aspx
Header: End-point assessment process
Intro: This section sets out the University of Nottingham’s processes and procedures in relation to the delivery and management of End Point Assessment (EPA) undertaken as part of both integrated and non-integrated Degree Apprenticeship Programmes
Content:
End-point assessment process - The University of NottinghamEnd-point assessment process
This section sets out the University of Nottingham’s processes and procedures in relation to the delivery and management of End Point Assessment (EPA) undertaken as part of both integrated and non-integrated Degree Apprenticeship ProgrammesEPA Process Document
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
01 August 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/personal-tutoring-student-support-and-development/disabled-students.aspx
Header: Disabled students
Intro: This page provides an introduction to the relevant legislation and the University's Disability Liaison Officer roles. Its content is directed at staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Disabled students - The University of NottinghamDisabled students
This page provides an introduction to the relevant legislation and the University's Disability Liaison Officer roles. Its content is directed at staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1.0 Purpose
This page provides guidance to all students about support provided for disabled students, with definitions, information about the Disability Liaison Officer role, as well as providing links about relevant legislation and links for more information about disability support arrangements relevant to each campus.
2.0 Key Principles
2.1 Overview and legislation
The term ‘Disabled Student’ is used to refer to those with a disability, long-term mental health difficulty or medical condition, autistic spectrum condition, or a specific learning difference such as dyslexia, dyspraxia, dyscalculia or ADHD.  As part of the University’s support to disabled students this page provides an introduction to relevant legislation and the University’s Disability Liaison Officer roles, links to which can be found in ‘Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures’ below.
2.2 Disability Liaison Officer (DLO)
Each School is expected to have a Disability Liaison Officer (DLO). The DLO will be the point of reference, advice and guidance for members of staff and students in the School for disability issues and support. The DLO must be a member of relevant School and/or Faculty committees.
Schools must have mechanisms (such as a Disability Action Plan, DAP) to:
Ensure School staff have a general level of awareness of the Equality Act 2010 and responsibilities within the School
Respond to disabled students and alert Disability Support Services if reasonable adjustments and funding are required
To alert all students, including those who do not have the required evidence for a Disability Support Plan, of the information provided by Disability Support Services (links can be found in the ‘Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures’ below).
Receive information by way of the MyNottingham Support Plan to enable the School to implement a plan following the recommendations of the Disability Support Plan, and finally monitor and review the situation at regular intervals
Ensure School learning, teaching and assessment policies are inclusive of disabled students
Publicise support available both within the School and by way of central services, such as Disability Support Services, during induction and at times throughout the course
Ensure all material produced by the School can easily be transcribed into alternative formats on request
Ensure School facilities and equipment meet the requirements of the relevant local legislation
3.0 Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures
For more information about the relevant legislation, please consult the following:
Equality Act 2010
The Public Sector Bodies Accessibility Regulations 2018
The Persons with Disabilities Act Malaysia 2008
Law of the People’s Republic of China on the Protection of Disabled Persons 2018
For more information about Disability Support Services, please consult the following:
UNUK Disability support services
UNM Disability Services
UNNC Disability support service
Additional links:
Teaching timetable arrangements for students who have a disability
Examination arrangements for disabled students
4.0 Version Control Table
Version Control Table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework based on content last modified on 06/08/2024
QSC
February 2025
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
24 February 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/personal-tutoring-student-support-and-development/teaching-timetable-arrangements-for-disabled-students.aspx
Header: Teaching timetable arrangements for disabled students
Intro: No intro paragraph found
Content:
Teaching timetable arrangements for disabled students - The University of NottinghamTeaching timetable arrangements for disabled students
This page provides information on teaching timetable arrangements for disabled students. Its content is directed at staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1.0 Purpose
This page provides guidance for students and staff about the University’s commitment to support disabled students, describes the procedure for seeking alternative timetabling arrangements for disabled students and provides links to additional pages about Disability Support Services.
2.0 Purpose
2.1 Global view
The University of Nottingham aims to ensure that disabled people have equal opportunities to benefit from, and contribute to, the learning and services available in higher education institutions.
In the UK the Equality Act 2010 covers all aspects of the physical environment including access to, and facilities in, teaching rooms. The Persons with Disabilities Act Malaysia 2018 aims to ensure all students based at the Malaysia have equal access to educational opportunities.  The Law of the People’s Republic of China on the Protection of Disabled Persons 2018 ensures the right to equal access to educational to disabled persons.  The Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) Quality Code for Higher Education also makes reference to access to an inclusive environment for learning and aims to ensure that all students have equal access to educational opportunities.
2.2 Overview of the University's commitment
The University is strongly committed to equality of opportunity in its provision for all students, providing ongoing support with the focus being on providing accessible services and supporting students in completing their courses as independently as possible.
As part of this commitment, the University believes that teaching rooms are to be allocated and timetabled with the needs of disabled students in mind, including additional space for wheelchair users and scribes. This includes taking account of physical access to buildings/rooms, the surrounding environment (for example, parking provision) and facilities in the teaching rooms themselves.
3.0 Roles and Responsibilities
Students are responsible to contact Disability Support Services to arrange an assessment.
Schools are responsible to refer any student with a timetabling issue directly to Disability Support Services as a matter of urgency.
Disability Support Services are responsible for assessing the student and liaising with the Timetabling team.
4.0 Procedure for alternative timetable arrangements for disabled students
The procedure for making alternative timetable arrangements for disabled students is as follows:
All students requiring alternative arrangements of any nature must be assessed by Disability Support Services.
School staff must refer any disabled student with a timetabling issue directly to Disability Support Services as a matter of urgency as the further the timetabling build progresses, the more constrained the scheduling is and the more difficult it is to find timetabling solutions.
Disability Support Services will assess student needs and pass recommendations for timetabling arrangements to the Timetabling Office where rooms will be allocated/reallocated accordingly.
5.0 Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures
For more information about the services provided by Disability Support Services, please consult the following:
UNUK Disability support services
UNM Disability Services
UNNC Disability support service
Module registration (for new and returning students) information can be found at:
UNUK Module enrolment
UNM Course enrolment
UNNC Academic services
Additional links:
Examination arrangements for disabled students
6.0 Version Control Table
Version Control Table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework based on content last modified on 06/08/2024
QSC
February 2025
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
24 February 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/personal-tutoring-student-support-and-development/examination-arrangements-disabled-students.aspx
Header: Examination arrangements for disabled students
Intro: This page provides information about examination arrangements for disabled students. Its content is directed at staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Examination arrangements for disabled students - The University of NottinghamExamination arrangements for disabled students
This page provides information about examination arrangements for disabled students. Its content is directed at staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1.0 Purpose
This page applies to all disabled students with a Support Plan created by the Disability Support Services. These guidelines set out the arrangements for organising the effective assessment of disabled students.
2.0 Key Principles
2.1 Overview
As part of its commitment to disabled students, the University believes that assessment methods will be appropriate to academic objectives of the course and minimise any impact of a student’s condition on performance in assessment.  This means that some students may require alternative arrangements (‘accommodations’) for examinations or other assessments.  For some students these will be described in their Support Plans.  Students without Disability Support Plans can also discuss accessibility with their tutors.
The University aligns with the Quality Assurance Agency's Quality Code for Higher Education. In particular the University is attentive to the following Principle: “Provides design assessments that test learning outcomes and are fair, reliable, accessible, authentic and inclusive. Where applicable, and sustainable, students are offered different options for undertaking assessments to promote accessibility and inclusion”. At the same time, the rigour and comparability of the assessment must be protected with the effect that one academic standard is applied to all students.
Wherever possible, disabled students must undertake the same assessments as others on their course.
2.2 Determination of alternative assessment arrangements for formal examinations
Specific provision may be necessary for students with Disability Support Plans for formal examinations. Some examples of adjustments can be found in the  'Related Regulation, Policies and Procedures' section below, where you will also find marking guidelines for students using exam stickers.
2.3 Determination of alternative assessment arrangements for coursework and other assessments
Students must not be required to make a disclosure of their name on cover sheets for coursework in order to allow them the same opportunities for anonymity that are available to other students. However, where there are requests for alternative forms of assessment or for extensions to deadlines, relevant staff may have to be informed of the accommodation.
The University recognises that the production of written work may present particular challenges for some disabled students and has made provision for additional specialist support for these students. Therefore, the coursework of students with a Disability Support Plan is marked following the same criteria as that applied to all students. Students with a Disability Support Plan can request that Schools clarify their marking criteria so that they are aware of any penalties imposed for inaccurate spelling or poor presentation.
Extensions to deadlines are deemed ‘a reasonable adjustment’ and will be one of the recommendations made by Disability Support Services in the Disability Support Plan shared with Disability Liaison Officers (DLOs) and other relevant colleagues, which students must request (using the correct process - see below) in order to access the extension.
It is also possible that a small number of disabled students may require an alternative form of assessment for coursework and examinations on occasion.
3.0 Roles and Responsibilities
The University will ensure that policies and procedures for requesting accommodations to assessment and examinations are widely publicised and easy for students to follow and will endeavour to apply them consistently across the institution. It is the University's responsibility to give students opportunities to disclose their disability and to ensure appropriate confidentiality. Students must be aware, however, that in order for alternative arrangements to be implemented, relevant staff will need to be informed of the disclosure. The main mechanism by which disabled students receive specific accommodations is through the issuance of a Disability Support Plan
It is the student's responsibility to ensure that the University is aware of their disability and to apply for any accommodations in assessment conditions within deadlines which are established for this purpose. Any request must be supported by appropriate evidence. The links for how to submit evidence in relation to your request can be found in the 'Related Regulation, Policies and Procedures' section below
It is also the responsibility of the student to request an extension to a coursework deadline
Disability Support Services are responsible for recommending reasonable adjustments after consultation where appropriate with relevant University staff or bodies.
Student services are responsible for implementing alternative arrangements for students (as outlined in their Disability Support Plan) for examinations controlled centrally.
Schools are responsible for implementing alternative arrangements for students (as outlined in their Disability Support Plan) for examinations which are held by Schools independently or where it involves another form of assessment.
4.0 Procedural Steps for Students
Alternative arrangements for formal examinations can be made in discussion with Disability Support Services who liaise with the central exam team and assessment teams.
Students requesting a deadline extension must complete and submit the Coursework Extension Request Form (CERF) (available in the ‘Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures’ section below).
If a disabled student requires an alternative form of assessment for coursework and/or examinations, there will be consultation between the School, the student and Disability Support Services to discuss and agree options that align with both the learning objectives and reasonable adjustments.
Information for students who wish to request alternative arrangements for assessments is available on the Alternative Exam Arrangements website, the link for which can be found in the ‘Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures’ section below.
5.0 Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures
For more information about examples of adjustments possible for exams, please consult the following
Alternative Exam Arrangements (UNUK)
Alternative Exam Arrangements (UNM)
Alternative Exam Arrangements (UNNC)
For more information for students with support plans about how to request a course extension, please consult the following:
Students with Disability Support Plans - access to coursework extensions
Policy on long-term conditions or disabilities affecting students' ability to study and complete assessment
For more information about how to submit your evidence, which is required before recommendations can be made for alternative arrangements in assessments, please consult the following:
Submitting your evidence (UNUK)
Submitting your evidence (UNM)
Submitting your evidence (UNNC)
For more information about the Disability Support Services provided, please consult the following:
UNUK Disability support services
UNM Disability Services
UNNC Disability support service
For more information about alternative timetabling arrangements, please consult the following:
Teaching timetable arrangements for disabled students
6.0 Version Control Table
Version Control Table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework based on content last modified on 06/08/2024
QSC
February 2025
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
24 February 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/reg-retention-of-assessed-work.aspx
Header: Regulations on the retention of students assessed work
Intro: This page contains the University's regulations on the retention of students assessed work. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses and covers both students assessed work and materials that support the assessment process e.g. assessment briefings, marks schemes, etc.
Content:
Regulations on the retention of students assessed work - The University of NottinghamRegulations on the retention of students assessed work
This page contains the University's regulations on the retention of students assessed work. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses and covers both students assessed work and materials that support the assessment process e.g. assessment briefings, marks schemes, etc.Scope
These regulations relate to all assessment types both online and paper based. Where assessment results in a physical artifact, Schools are not required to retain the physical object but must consider retaining photographic or video evidence of the students work.
Schools should maintain and use sample marked scripts in all subject areas to ensure maintenance of academic standards.
1. Purpose
The University must retain appropriate evidence of students assessed work together with appropriate supporting materials i.e. assessment briefs, examination question papers, marking criteria, mark schemes, model answers, submission deadlines, etc for a specified period in order to meet academic, statutory and regulatory requirement and legal obligations.
The regulations and procedures for the retention and disposal of assessment material form part of a wider Document Retention Schedule, which is prepared in accordance with the University’s Record Management Policy.
2. Key Principles
Schools in liaison with Learning Technologies should  retain appropriate records of students accessed work together with contextual documentation that inform the assessment process.  The documents retained must allow for judgments on rigour of assessment to be made to draw reliable conclusions about the entirely of the provision in relation to the University’s compliance with the Office for Students conditions of registration B4 and B5. Retained documentation will also be used to support the External Examiner process and where appropriate provide information to support the complaint and appeal process.
Appropriate records  should be retained for the periods as set out in the University’s records retention schedule and must facilitate judgement about the effective assessment and credibility of the awards conferred by the University.
All assessed work that is retained in accordance with the University’s records management policy.
Records Management (internal only)
The disposal of student work must only be done on the authority of the relevant Department, and in compliance with the University’s Data Retention policy.
Where submitted work is coursework and this has been returned to the student for the purposes of providing feedback, Schools should ensure that either a copy has been retained within the School or that on request work can be returned to the School at a later date. Any work retained should be kept until at least the end of the academic session following the session in which the assessment occurred. Where assessments are submitted electronically Schools may wish to consult the Learning Technologies team to ascertain whether the chosen submission method fulfils the assessment and administrative requirements.
If you have a problem or query for the Learning Technologies team, please email:
learning-technologies@nottingham.ac.uk
Past marks should be used to analyse trends in results in order to evaluate the maintenance and development of academic standards. If your School uses Campus for marks processing, comparative statistics can be produced from this system. Please contact Student Services (Assessment Team) for further details.
3. Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures
For more information about the Student Service team or the Learning technologies team, please consult the following:
Services for Students homepage
Libraries - Learning Technologies
Educational Excellence - Learning Technologies Section
4. Version control table
Version control table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reviewed and updated to reflect the guidance issues by the OFs on the retention of students assessed work
QSC
01/07/2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
01 July 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/academic-regulations/min-expec-tl-activity.aspx
Header: Minimum expectations for levels of teaching and learning activity
Intro: This page provides guidance on different types of scheduled teaching and learning activities, including the minimum expectations for a typical programme of study. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Minimum expectations for levels of teaching and learning activity - The University of NottinghamMinimum expectations for levels of teaching and learning activity
This page provides guidance on different types of scheduled teaching and learning activities, including the minimum expectations for a typical programme of study. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
Students would expect to spend 10 hours learning on average to gain one academic credit, including scheduled teaching and directed learning activities and private study time. This guidance refers to scheduled teaching and directed learning activity which includes synchronous teaching and learning and directed asynchronous learning activities completed onsite or remotely.
Implementation
Includes:
provision dates
The provisions which are outlined on this page were first introduced as follows and have been applied from the start of the following academic sessions:
2012/13 Students on the Foundation Stage and Qualifying Stage of Honours Degree and Integrated Masters programmes
2013/14 Students on Part I of Honours Degree and Integrated Masters programmes
2014/15 Students on Part II of Honours Degree and Integrated Masters programmes and students on Part III of Integrated Masters programmes.
2021/22 Students on post graduate taught programmes
Defining teaching and learning activities
Scheduled teaching and directed learning activities include digital learning, delivered onsite or remotely and in-person teaching. Activities may be synchronous or directed asynchronous and include for example:
Demonstrations
External visits
Fieldwork and placements
Lectures
Practical classes and workshops (including labs and clinical skills)
Project supervision
Seminars
Supervised time in studio/workshop
Tutorials
Work-based learning
Minimum levels of scheduled teaching and directed learning activity
Includes:
typical hours; School requirements; expectations for a full-time programme
The levels below relate to a student following a typical programme of study (based upon modules comprising 120 credits per year and there being 22 teaching weeks in the year) and provide the minimum number of scheduled learning hours per 10 credits:
22 hours for students taking the Foundation Stage or Qualifying Stage of Honours Degree and Integrated Masters programmes
18 hours for students taking Part I of Honours Degree or Integrated Masters programmes
15 hours for students on Part II of Honours Degree or Integrated Masters programmes and for students taking Part III of Integrated Masters programmes.
For a student on a post graduate taught course (based on modules comprising 180 credits per year and there being 22 teaching weeks per year) the minimum number of teaching hours per 10 credits is 7 hours.
Study hours on placement modules may be counted towards the above totals.
These are typical pathways. Any Schools which do not provide a typical pathway are still expected to aim for these levels as far as possible. This will not be directly applicable to UoN apprenticeship programmes where work-based learners have non-standard timetabling through each year of study (please refer to specific programme provision).
PGT supervision expectations
Every taught postgraduate student completing a full Master's qualification (whether full or part time, on a professional course, or on a distance learning course) must be allocated a Master's project supervisor and must be informed of who this is prior to the start of substantive work on the Master's project. The assignment of a supervisor to each student will be the responsibility of the appropriate personnel within each School. If the allocated supervisor cannot fulfil their duties for unforeseen circumstances (e.g. illness), the School will allocate a replacement supervisor and notify the student of the change in a timely manner.
Regulation around Master's project supervision provides that;
Schools will ensure that supervisors at least meet the minimum number of meetings and contacts described in the PGT supervision guidance document. It is also recommended that Schools ensure similar experiences for students by stipulating a maximum number of meetings and contacts and setting the date when supervision of the project will end.
The same minimum and maximum numbers of supervisory meetings apply to all students regardless of visa status.  However, where the student is in the UK on a student visa they need to consider the timing of their supervision meetings as where there is no simultaneous teaching activity (normally June – August inclusive) the student must have a monthly PGT supervision meeting during this period in line with the UKVI guidance for staff (link provided below), whereas these would be optional for students not on a student visa.
It will be the supervisor’s responsibility to initiate the introductory contact. Providing the student has been advised of who their supervisor is, it is the student’s responsibility to initiate any subsequent contacts required thereafter. Students that fail to respond or maintain contact with their supervisor do so at their own choosing for which the School will not be held responsible. Student visa holders who fail to respond or maintain contact with their supervisor will risk immigration compliance implications in accordance with the terms of their student visa.
Supervisors will offer the opportunity to receive feedback if deemed necessary by the student, on the progress of the project prior to submission. Schools are to determine the level of feedback offered and to advise students accordingly e.g. one review of a chapter or a % of the document. If feedback is required, the work should be submitted in the agreed manner by the agreed deadline.
Schools will ensure that additional support provisions are highlighted to their students (examples can be found in the PGT Supervision guidance) for students to access independently.
For more information about PGT supervision please consult the PGT supervision guidance document:
PGT supervision guidance document
For more information about UKVI PGT supervision guidance, please consult the UKVI PGT supervision guidance document
PGT masters project visa guidance document
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
03 July 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/personal-tutoring-student-support-and-development/academic-guides.aspx
Header: Academic Guides
Intro: This page provides guidance on the responsibilities of Academic Guides. This page applies to staff and students in Schools or departments, on any campus, where the ‘Here for You’ Academic Guides exist, rather than personal tutors, but may also be of interest to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Academic Guides - The University of NottinghamAcademic Guides
This page provides guidance on the responsibilities of Academic Guides. This page applies to staff and students in Schools or departments, on any campus, where the ‘Here for You’ Academic Guides exist, rather than personal tutors, but may also be of interest to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1.0 Purpose
Academic Guides are staff who support registered students throughout their studies, within an interdisciplinary team. They are also referred to as the ‘Here for You’ Academic Guides. This page describes the recruitment, roles and responsibilities of the Academic Guides.
2.0 Role and Responsibilities
The University Senior Tutor will be responsible for regularly reviewing and updating these regulations, policies, and procedures to ensure alignment with the Quality Manual, and the University's overall student support framework and best practices.
The Academic Guides will maintain accurate records of student interactions, student attendance  at meetings with the Academic Guide, and any interventions provided. The lead School/Unit must allocate every undergraduate student an Academic Guide at the start of their course.
The lead School/Unit must appoint Joint Honours students an Academic Guide from that School/Unit. In the non-lead school, the student will be appointed a Joint Honours Liaison Officer or an Academic Guide.
2.1 Workload and Allocation
The School/Unit will allocate appropriate workload in the Academic Guide's workload plan to ensure sufficient time for duties. Typically, the workload amounts to 0.2 FTE,  encompassing responsibilities for overseeing typically 80-100 students.
2.2 Professional Development
The School/Unit will signpost Academic Guides to ongoing professional development provided by the University in relation to student support, advising, coaching methodologies, and EDI best practices, and encourage Academic Guides to take up these training opportunities.
The School/Unit will ensure Academic Guides receive regular updates on changes to university policies, procedures, and support services.
2.3 Boundaries and Limitations
The Academic Guide will not be involved in organising timetables, participating in EC panels, or, for UNUK students, engagement in dashboard monitoring.
2.4 Inclusion and Diversity
The School/Unit will ensure Academic Guides adhere to the University's EDI principles and are aware of the Access and Participation Plan, promoting inclusivity and understanding among students.
The School/Unit will require Academic Guides to demonstrate sensitivity to cultural issues and to be able to communicate effectively with individuals from diverse backgrounds.
2.5 Communication and Transparency
The School/Unit will clearly and timely communicate the role, responsibilities, and boundaries of the Academic Guide to all undergraduate students, including incoming students and exchange students.
The School/Unit will ensure any changes or updates to the Academic Guide role are promptly communicated to all undergraduate students.
The School/Unit will establish clear channels for students to provide feedback or raise concerns regarding the Academic Guide system.
2.6 Conflict Resolution and Complaint Procedures
The School/Unit will have clear protocols for addressing conflicts or complaints that may arise between Academic Guides and students or other parties.
The School/Unit will define the appropriate channels for escalating and resolving such issues within the School/Unit or at the University level.
The School/Unit will, where appropriate, permit a student to change their Academic Guide and will clearly advertise this process to students.
2.7 Support, Performance Evaluation and Continuous Improvement
The School/Unit will use an agreed framework for regularly evaluating the performance of Academic Guides, beyond relying solely on student feedback.
The School/Unit will establish mechanisms for identifying areas of improvement, providing constructive feedback, and implementing necessary support or training for Academic Guides.
The School/Unit will signpost Academic Guides to ongoing support and wellbeing provision provided by the University and encourage Academic Guides to take up these opportunities.
2.8 Succession Planning and Continuity
The School/Unit will have, where possible, procedures for ensuring a smooth transition and continuity of support when Academic Guides leave their roles or new ones are appointed.
The School/Unit will have measures to maintain institutional knowledge and ensure a consistent student experience during such transitions.
2.9 Accessibility and Reasonable Accommodations
The School/Unit will implement guidelines for ensuring that the services provided by Academic Guides are accessible to students with disabilities or specific requirements.
The School/Unit will outline procedures for providing reasonable accommodations within the ‘Here for You’ scheme and collaborating with disability support services when necessary.
3.10 Contingency Planning:The School/Unit will develop contingency plans to address situations where Academic Guides may be unavailable or unable to fulfil their duties, such as instances of illness or emergencies.
The School/Unit will establish protocols for ensuring continuity of support and communication with students in such cases.
3.0 Procedural Steps
3.1 Recruitment and Selection
The School/Unit will use the University-agreed job description and person specification for the Academic Guide role, without adding or subtracting from the requirements outlined.
The School/Unit will monitor the performance of Academic Guides in relation to the job description and person specification.
The School/Unit will implement a fair and transparent recruitment process.
The School/Unit will ensure successful candidates undergo training in Safeguarding, Prevent, GDPR compliance, CMA, and EDI principles, before commencing their duties.  This is a minimum and not an exhaustive list of development that may be useful in the role.
Academic Guides must be academic/clinical academic members of staff. Note that in the UK, clinical lecturers, practitioner health lecturers, NHS mentors, and social work practice learning tutors or equivalent can be Academic Guides.
3.2 Meetings and Support
The School/Unit will provide guidelines for Academic Guides to conduct group meetings (which will take place four times a year) and/or to make arrangements for individual drop-ins.
The School/Unit will determine agendas prior to group meetings and disseminate to students sufficiently in advance to allow for adequate preparation.
The School/Unit will establish procedures for students to book one-on-one meetings with Academic Guides either in-person or online.
Academic Guides will have regular meetings and collaboration with key support teams (e.g., student wellbeing, learning development, EDI, disability support).
Academic Guides will be in regular contact with the other members of the School/Unit's 'Here for You' team.
3.3 Record-keeping and Reporting
Academic Guides will use advisory notes on Campus for recording student attendance and interactions.
The School/Unit will establish procedures for Academic Guides to report non-attendance to the responsible party within the School/Unit.
Academic Guides will maintain confidentiality and adhere to data protection regulations.
3.4 Evaluation and Feedback
The School/Unit will conduct annual surveys to gather student feedback on the effectiveness of the Academic Guide system and support provided.
The School/Unit will implement processes for analysing survey results, identifying areas for improvement, and implementing necessary actions.
The School/Unit will ensure that learning from survey results is shared with other Schools/Units
The School/Unit will establish clear communication channels for disseminating survey findings, and associated actions to students.
4.0 Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures
The scope of student support, development and personal tutoring
Induction and tutoring statements
Personal tutoring
Role and responsibilities of Senior Tutors
Disabled students
High Performance Athlete academic flexibility
5.0 Version Control Table
Version Control Table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Page published
QSC
June 2024
1.1
Reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework based on content last modified on 8/1/25
QSC
February 2025
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
24 February 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/registration-and-attendance/high-perf-athlete-academic-flex.aspx
Header: High Performance Athlete academic flexibility
Intro: This page contains the University's stance on academic flexibility in respect of High Performance Athletes (HPAs). This information is only relevant to staff and students based at the UK campus.
Content:
High Performance Athlete academic flexibility - The University of NottinghamHigh Performance Athlete academic flexibility
This page contains the University's stance on academic flexibility in respect of High Performance Athletes (HPAs). This information is only relevant to staff and students based at the UK campus.1.0 Overview
This summary has been developed to enable dual-career support for highly talented sporting individuals persue their studies whilst competing at a high level in their sport.
The University of Nottingham Sports’ Scholarship and Recruitment Manager (SRM) will identify High Performance Athletes (HPAs).
Students on the Sports Scholarship Programme (SSP) and/or on the Talented Athlete Scholarship Scheme (TASS) would automatically qualify as an HPA and thus be eligible to receive support. Not all HPAs at the University of Nottingham will be on the SSP or TASS.
At the start of each Academic year, the SRM will share a list HPAs with the Faculty Associate Pro-Vice Chancellors for Education and Student Experience (FAPVCs for ESE) (or their nominated deputy) for approval. These HPAs would then be eligible for the support outlined in this document as applicable.
The approved list will be shared by the SRM with the Faculty HPA Leads to distribute to appropriate HPA tutors and teaching staff for each Faculty, and the Director of Registry and Academic Affairs (or their delegate) to distribute to the approprate process senior managers. For avoidance of doubt, HPA Tutors are additional to the student's usual Personal Tutor and are special tutors especially for HPAs who act as a key liaison for the student with their course teams. These academic staff would be identified by the FAPVC for ESE (or nominated deputy) and training provided, as necessary, by the SRM and their team.
The SRM will meet all identified HPAs at the beginning of the academic year to outline the academic support available. These HPAs are then expected to identify and organise a meeting with their HPA Tutor and, if appropriate (for instance, for HPAs who are also SSP and TASS athletes) jointly with their Performance Lifestyle Advisor (PLA), where a range of support will be discussed and identified between them and to review the academic and sporting schedules for the year. This support will be reviewed periodically throughout the academic year where needed, depending on the training and competition schedule of the HPA.
Support to HPAs will be provided in the ways detailed below.
2.0 Information for student visa holders
Staff and students referring to this guidance where the student is a student visa holder must note:
There are specific limitations on sporting activity on a student visa as detailed in paragraph 6.14 – 6.19 of the student sponsor guidance (sponsorship duties).
UK Visas and Immigration Student sponsor guidance
The University UKVI academic engagement monitoring requirements apply at all times to all student visa holders. The statutory expectation is that the academic attendance of student visa holders will be prioritised. For the avoidance of doubt, this means that all students, including HPAs, must be regularly and consistently attending and engaging with their course.
Specific cases must be referred to the University’s Visa and Immigration team, where any doubt arises which might affect the student or the University from an immigration compliance perspective.
3.0 Academic support
Includes:
Extenuating circumstances, alternative methods of assessment
Academic departments' primary support for students may be through the Extenuating Circumstances (EC) policy. Where an HPA’s sitting of an assessment is disrupted by sporting commitments, the EC Panel has discretion to award any relevant EC outcome. EC Panels are encouraged to be flexible.
This is in line with the University's Extenuating Circumstances policy. For more information, please consult the following:
Student Services - Extenuating Circumstances Procedure
The meaning of “Representing the University at a national event or involvement in some other significant/prestigious event” includes a training or competition event deemed as key to their elite pathway. This will be confirmed by the University of Nottingham Sports’ Scholarship and Recruitment Manager (SRM) whose written statement would be considered sufficient evidence.
For more information about acceptable circumstances, please consult the following:
Guidance on Acceptable Circumstances and Evidence (EC Procedure)
3.1 Extenuating Circumstances for group work/projects.
EC requests which involve summative group work will be addressed on a case by case basis given the different nature of group work.
It may be possible to offer an alternative mode for the HPA and/or a different submission date, although the decision making must include the potential impact to others within their group.
The SRM, HPA Tutor and Module Convenor (liaising with Exams Officer as necessary) will work together to do their best to develop a workable solution.
3.2 Alternative methods of assessment.
In certain cases it may be necessary to explore alternative modes of assessment. Such cases would need to be discussed between SRM, HPA Tutor, Module Convenor, Exams Officer of the relevant academic department, and EC panel, and approved on a case by case basis.
This is in line with the University's Extenuating Circumstances policy. For more information, please consult the following:
Student Services - Extenuating Circumstances Procedure
A possible recommendation from an EC panel is an alternative form of assessment “Recommend a different form of re-assessment, as determined by the School, if the same or equivalent of the original is no longer possible, to assess whether the learning outcomes are achieved. Students have no automatic right to individual assessment of this nature.” For more information, please consult the following:
Student Services - Guidance on Recommendations for EC Panels
It is noted that usually Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) approval would be needed if this alternative form of assessment was outside regulation. This QSC case would need to be prepared and approved (involving relevant school staff), to confirm that learning outcomes would be met and grounds for it are met, and this would be undertaken by the HPA Tutor.
4.0 Exams overseas
Includes:
location of exams; administration charges
4.1 Location of Exams
At times it is recognised that in exceptional circumstances a HPA may need to take an exam abroad if no other option is possible for them to complete the exam. An alternative may be to take the exam in the UK on the next assessment date.
The Overseas Examinations Arrangements policy already exists. For more information, please consult the following:
Services for Students - How to apply for an overseas examination
A match/event overseas at the time of the exams, qualifies as a reason to take the exam overseas in accordance with the established policy. This could equally be a key training camp as much as a competitive event. The importance of the event (and whether it qualifies as a reason) will be confirmed by the SRM, whose written statement would be considered sufficient evidence.
HPAs should be aware that travel within country may be required in order to access an approved centre to sit exams overseas.
The HPA will need to apply by the Exams Office Overseas published deadlines, which are usually approximately 3 months before the start of an exam period. No extension on this is afforded by this policy.
If change is needed at short notice, it is likely that an alternative assessment date will be required. This would be achieved using the Extenuating Circumstances policy.
4.2 Administration charge.
The University has an administration charge for students taking exams as part of an Overseas Examinations Arrangement. It is requested that HPAs have this fee waived.
Any fee would be paid for the HPA under the Performance Sport budget where possible within the Department of Sport (approval through Assistant Director of Sport – Performance).
Note, there may also be local fees to pay applied by the host venue where the exam is to take place, which would be for the HPAs’ or their National governing body to meet.
The SRM and HPA Tutor would support the HPA in identifying a suitable local venue.
Often, either due to short notice or the focus required for the event, it may be more suitable to apply under the Extenuating Circumstances policy to sit the exam on a later date.
5.0 Timetable
Includes:
adjustments to personal timetable; practical assessments; flexibility; group work; academic year splitting
5.1 Adjustments to personal timetable
Where possible and with enough notice, a HPA may be allowed to change seminar groups for the academic year. The SRM, HPA Tutor and Module Convenor in collaboration with timetabling will work together to develop a viable solution.
5.2 Timetable adjustment for practical assessments.
Where an HPA is unable to attend a test, lab or practical formative assessment, then the Extenuating Circumstances policy does not apply.
In these circumstances, the SRM and/or HPA Tutor will liaise with the Module Convenor to see if the HPA is able to attend an alternative session.
If no alternative sessions are available, the SRM, HPA Tutor and Module Convenor will work together to do their best to develop a different solution, but if this is not possible it is understood that an HPA may need to attend the original formative assessment/practical.
5.3 Explore flexible or revised placement dates/times/locations.
Though it is respected that placements can be a challenge to alter, where foresight is possible and flexibility available, the SRM, HPA Tutor and Module Convenor (or whoever most appropriate school person is) will do their best to ensure an HPA receives placements that allow the HPA to continue their training and competition through being provided with placements in closer proximity to Nottingham and/or are understanding of HPA’s situations.
5.4 Splitting academic years.
In particular circumstances and if possible an HPA may be granted the ability to split an academic year into two within regulations relating to maximum number of credits per semester
For more information, please consult the following:
Taught module enrolment and registering for additional credits
This is currently only possible for home fee status HPAs (due to student visa limitations meaning that the University will not act as the immigration sponsor for a student to undertake part time study).
This will be arranged by the HPA. If part time (PT) study is within regulations for the programme, a transfer form can be submitted. If part time study is outside of regulations, and where PT study is possible then with the Personal Tutor and Course Leader’s agreement a case to Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) can be submitted for consideration and approval.
6.0 Attendance and engagement
Includes:
authorised absence recording; 1:1 academic support
6.1 Authorised absence recording
Some academic departments request mandatory attendance and engagement from a student. Due to sporting commitments a HPA may need to receive a authorised absence, which does not count against their mandatory attendance record.
It is important to note that an exception to any flexibility with attendance applies where the student is in the UK on a student visa. Wherever the University acts as the student’s immigration sponsor in the UK, the student is expected to regularly and consistently attend and engage with their studies, prioritising academic studies and engagement over sporting activity and/or work, as required by their visa
Attendance monitoring requirements are managed at a local level. Please refer to the University attendance and engagement policy which can be found here:
Regulations governing attendance and engagement
6.2 1:1 Academic support.
Due to the nature of an HPA having to balance their academic and sporting commitments, this may result in an HPA missing some aspects of their academic studies.
All students are allocated a Personal Tutor by their School, as explained in the Personal Tutoring policy (see here).
Personal tutors are not expected to be able to advise on all matters of personal and professional development and support. They are, however, expected to have sufficient knowledge of their school and the wider University so that they can help students to find the assistance they require.
In addition, it may be the case that if an HPA misses some key aspects of their academic studies, an academic department may agree to support an HPA with a small number of 1:1 academic tutorials, where necessary and possible (for example, staff workload may not permit this).
This would be discussed on a case by case basis with the HPA Tutor, Course Lead and relevant Module Convenor.
7.0 Voluntary interruption of studies
At certain times, due to major sporting competitions, a HPA may need to take some time out from their studies. An academic School will allow an HPA to interrupt their studies on these grounds subject to regulations concerning maximum periods of registration.
This is in line with the Voluntary Interruption of Studies (VIS) policy.
The HPA would apply for VIS in the usual way with support from the HPA tutor.
For more information, please consult the following:
Voluntary interruption of study
8.0 Expectations and responsibilities of High Performance Athletes (HPAs) receiving support
Ensure initial meetings are held with their respective Performance Lifestyle Advisor (PLA) and HPA Tutor within a month of the start date of their course and appropriate follow-up meetings are also held (particularly for periods where a high degree of flux relating to sporting events is likely to occur).
To provide their training and competition schedules at the start of the academic year and/or as soon as possible and to ensure that they keep this updated and advise their PLA and personal tutor accordingly.
Liaise with coaches to explore the possibility of revising training commitments where possible.
Ensure their studies remain a priority and are pro-active in seeking support where needed via the University of Nottingham Sports’ Scholarship and Recruitment Manager (SRM) , PLA, or personal tutor/'Here for You' Academic Guide.
For HPAs on a student visa, they need to take accountability for ensuring their studies remain a priority where   they are in the UK on a student visa and that they are aware of the limitations of the student visa route for their chosen sporting activities. Student visa holders should also know how to contact the Visa and Immigration team for further advice, support and guidance on immigration matters where applicable
Update their PLA, personal tutor, HPA tutor and SRM with changes to sporting commitments in a timely manner.
9.0 Other relevant regulations
Please note that students in the UK on a Student Route visa are also affected by the University's Policy on Immigration Sponsorship. Where academic policies and immigration policies seem to be contradictory, immigration policies will take precedence. For more information, please consult the following:
Limitations on immigration sponsorship and Graduate Visa reporting
For more information on the University's Extenuating Circumstances policy, please consult the following:
Student Services - Extenuating Circumstances Procedure
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
18 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/registration-and-attendance/vol-interruption-of-study.aspx
Header: Voluntary interruption of study
Intro: This page provides information on the process and associated implications that apply when a student wishes to interrupt their studies. This information is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Voluntary interruption of study - The University of NottinghamVoluntary interruption of study
This page provides information on the process and associated implications that apply when a student wishes to interrupt their studies. This information is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Please note that students in the UK on a Student Route visa are also affected by the University's Policy on Immigration Sponsorship. Where academic policies and immigration policies seem to be contradictory, immigration policies will take precedence. For more information, please consult the following:
Immigration sponsorship
1.0 Purpose
Students may, for a variety of reasons, want to interrupt their studies. Voluntary Interruption of study is one of the ways the University can support students through personal difficulty and can also be used in other time-limited circumstances (for example, by SU sabbatical officers).
2.0 Key Principles
2.1 Effects of interrupting study
When a student interrupts their study, their registration with the University will be temporarily suspended and all relevant authorities (where known) will be informed.
A student whose registration is suspended because of voluntary interruption of study is not entitled to attend any teaching or take any assessments and will not pay tuition fees in accordance with the University’s fee schedule. However, they are still subject to other, relevant regulations of the University, such as the Traffic Regulations, the Regulations for Library and Computer Use and the University’s Code of Discipline for Students.
2.2 Reasons for agreeing to requests to interrupt studies
The considerations to be applied by the school in making the decision to agree an interruption are:
Whether interruption is inevitable owing to extenuating circumstances such as injury, illness, or unavoidable family commitments; or
The reasons cited by the student indicate that it would genuinely be in their best academic, financial, or personal interest to interrupt their studies; and
Significant curriculum changes are not likely to occur during the period of interruption such as to make it difficult for the student to resume their studies.
For apprentices, consideration may also be made where situations, such as work-based commitments, are affecting the ability to meet the required off-the-job training hours for study over a period of longer than four weeks.
Schools may wish to consider or request supporting evidence (for example, from medical or counselling services) before agreeing to an interruption. For more information, please consult the Extenuating circumstances page.
2.3 Timing of interruptions
An interruption of study may begin immediately in cases where a student’s absence from the University is unavoidable or urgently required. In all other cases, the interruption of study of taught course students must begin from the end of a semester (that is, after the end of the examinations attached to that semester) so that there is a clearly identifiable point at which a return to studies will occur.
The interruption of a research student’s study will usually commence at the beginning of a month.
Interruptions must not be granted just before the start of examinations simply as a means of allowing students to avoid (or postpone) failure in a number of modules, as this would provide these students with an unmerited advantage.
2.4 Implications for the immigration status of international students in the UK
Students who are considering an interruption of study or who are advised to interrupt must be advised to consult the Visa and Immigration Team for immigration advice before submitting their interruption request to the Student Service Centre or equivalent office. The request to interrupt study form also ensures that relevant students are in receipt of immigration advice before proceeding with any change of circumstances.
A student's ability to repeat modules in attendance, as detailed in the 'Return to study' section below, may be restricted by the University's limitations on immigration sponsorhip policy and this must be taken into account when considering a request for interruption.
2.5 Period of interruption and maximum period of study from initial registration
An interruption must be for a definite period. Where it would seem insensitive to designate a date of return to studies, the student may be informed that the interruption is until a proposed date but subject to review and the proposed return date will be entered into relevant systems. In this case, Registry and Academic Affairs in the UK, Student Registry at UNM or Academic Affairs Office at UNNC must be informed by the school annually whether the interruption is continuing. In some cases, it may be appropriate for the school to require a student to provide medical certification of fitness to return to study before allowing re-registration to occur.
The University requires all students to complete their programme within a set period after initial registration regardless of individual circumstances. These are laid down in the guidelines on Maximum periods from initial registration. For more information, please consult the Maximum period from initial registration page linked below.
A School must refuse to allow a student to interrupt their study if that would result in it being impossible for that student to complete their studies within the defined time frames or those imposed by external requirements or individual programme specifications.
2.6 Return to study
Where an interruption is granted, the School may require the student (on their return) to repeat modules already passed where the syllabus for that module has been updated, or to take new modules to replace outdated modules previously passed. In these cases, the marks from the repeated or new modules will replace the marks gained from the outdated modules.
Where a student is on an accredited degree or a programme leading to professional registration and their normal period of study has been extended it may be necessary for them to undertake additional assessment in order to prove competency prior to conferral of their award.
A student who has interrupted their study will change cohort on their return to study and the regulations applying to the cohort they have joined will be applicable, which may have implications for their progression or final award for the programme. Undergraduate and postgraduate taught students will be sent a return to study form at least one month prior to returning from an interruption of study requesting confirmation of the return to study details.
For apprentices, the School will agree with the employer and apprentices the most appropriate point for return to study which would usually be expected to be up to 12 months. Funding rules prevent apprentices from undertaking repeat learning. Adjustment of the apprentice’s individual learning plan will be undertaken.
In circumstances where the Voluntary Interruption of Study comes as the result of the Support to Study policy, the University reserves the right to request contemporaneous evidence that a student is able to re-engage, as required, with their studies and the University community (with or without adjustments). For more information on the Support to Study policy and procedure, please consult the pages linked below:
3.0 Roles and responsibilities
Students must make their request to their school, and it is for the school to decide whether or not to recommend the interruption, taking into account the information in other sections.
Registry and Academic Affairs in the UK, Student Registry at UNM or Academic Affairs Office at UNNC must be informed as soon as an interruption has been recommended, in order that in can be approved on behalf of Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) and will confirm the approval and terms of the interruption in writing to the student.
It is the student’s responsibility to ensure that any sponsor or legal requirements are complied with when taking an interruption of study.
For apprentices, the Professional and Work-based Learning team will oversee the funding and contractual process. For apprentices, an interruption may require a change in the contracted agreement with the University and employer.
4.0 Procedural steps
4.1 Request to interrupt study forms and approval
Requests to interrupt must be made in advance of the interruption. Retrospective interruptions of study will only be granted in exceptional circumstances (or with regard to apprenticeships please see below).
Requests to interrupt must be made on the relevant form from the list below:
UK campus
Request to interrupt study UK campus - taught students in the schools of Law, Life Sciences, Chemistry, and Departments of History and Mechanical, Materials and Manufacturing Engineering only (excluding students on apprenticeship programmes)
Request to interrupt study UK campus - School of Education - taught students including BA, MA, PGCE and PGCEi (excluding CELE and PGCHE)
Request to interrupt study (UK campus –
all other
taught students)
Request to interrupt study (UK campus – research students)
Return from interruption of study (UK campus – taught students)
Amendment to agreed interruption of study (UK campus – taught students)
Compulsory Break in Learning Form - Apprentices (UK campus - taught students)
University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM)
Request to interrupt study (UNM campus – taught and research students)
University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC)
Request to interrupt study (UNNC campus – taught students)
Request to interrupt study (UNNC campus – research students)
4.2 Return to study
Undergraduate and postgraduate taught students will be sent a return to study form at least one month prior to returning from an interruption of study requesting confirmation of the return to study details.
4.3
Amendment to agreed interruption of study - applicable to taught students only
Students who have an agreed interruption of study and wish to request an amendment to the previously agreed interruption of study are advised to consult with their personal tutor and/or course director who will be able to decide if an extended interruption of study is the appropriate course of action before completing the request an amendment to agreed interruption of study form.
It is the student’s responsibility to ensure that any sponsor or legal requirements are complied with when amending the interruption of study. Students whose nationality is non-British/non-Irish will need to seek approval from the Visa and Immigration team before submitting the amendment to agreed interruption of study form.
In the case of research students who have already had an interruption of a year, any further extension will only be approved in exceptional circumstances to ensure that registration on the programme of study is not protracted over a lengthy period of time.
For apprentices, any interruption of studies is handled in conjunction with the Break in Learning process, as outlined in the appropriate Education and Skills Funding Agency funding rules (linked below).
4.4 Funding issues
Schools must always remind students of the need to consult their funding body before interrupting their study, and remind them that the University is not able to guarantee the resumption of any external grant or loan.
If a student interrupts their study and returns to repeat a stage or semester, the student will be charged the appropriate tuition fee for the repeat period of study.
4.4.1 Postgraduate students with a research council or other funding award
For postgraduate students in the UK with a research council or other funding award, Schools and students will need to ensure that they have prior permission in writing from their funding body before informing the Student Service Centre or appropriate office of the interruption and will be required to enclose copies of the related correspondence with the interruption form in confirmation of this.
UKRI funded students can contact:
BR-RA-DTP-funding@nottingham.ac.uk
. Other funders need to be contacted directly.
4.4.2 Students holding an award under the University's Postgraduate Studentship scheme
Where students hold an award under the University’s Postgraduate Studentship scheme, the appropriate forms must also be completed and sent to the Finance Department. In the UK where a student is supported through research council funding the School must ensure that the appropriate information is submitted to the relevant council and that the Finance Department is informed about any suspension of the stipend.
4.4.3 During the period of interruption
During the period of interruption, students in the UK will not normally receive any statutory student support from the Government (for example, student loans) or any University bursary or scholarship (such as Core Bursary). Students must be advised to contact the Financial Support Team within Registry and Academic Affairs for advice on the financial implications of interrupting their studies. For more information, please consult link below.
4.4.4 Apprenticeships
For apprentices, interruption of study (Break in Learning) will be managed and reported to the Education and Skills Funding Agency by the Professional and Work-based Learning team. Due to the nature of Break in Learning protocol, retrospective applications to schools, supported by the employer, may be necessary.
5.0 Related regulations, policies and procedures
Withdrawal from Study
Extenuating circumstances
Maximum period from initial registration
Support to Study policy
Support to Study procedure
Education and Skills Funding Agency
Funding and financial support
Optional placement year
UK campus forms
Request to interrupt study UK campus - taught students in the schools of Law, Life Sciences, Chemistry, and Departments of History and Mechanical, Materials and Manufacturing Engineering only (excluding students on apprenticeship programmes)
Request to interrupt study UK campus - School of Education - taught students including BA, MA, PGCE and PGCEi (excluding CELE and PGCHE)
Request to interrupt study (UK campus –
all other
taught students)
Request to interrupt study (UK campus – research students)
Return from interruption of study (UK campus – taught students)
Amendment to agreed interruption of study (UK campus – taught students)
Compulsory Break in Learning Form - Apprentices (UK campus - taught students)
University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM) forms
Request to interrupt study (UNM campus – taught and research students)
University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC) forms
Request to interrupt study (UNNC campus – taught students)
Request to interrupt study (UNNC campus – research students)
6.0 Version control table
Version Control Table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with the new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework, based on content last modified on 22 September 2023
QSC
August 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
UG and PGT students:
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
PGR students:
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
11 February 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-mres-geog-sept19.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Geography
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Geography from September 2019, including admissions, examination and award of degree information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Geography - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Geography
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Geography from September 2019, including admissions, examination and award of degree information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview and regulations
The regulations for the MRes portfolio in Geography are those which govern the University of Nottingham MRes available here:
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) from September 2019
Except where the following sections modify or supplement them
Admissions requirement
1.
Requirements for admission to a research degree are set out in the University of Nottingham’s Quality Manual in the section entitled Admissions. For more information, please consult the following:
Admissions
Programme of study
2.
Students will be admitted to a one year, full-time (two years, part-time) programme of study.
Taught and thesis elements
3.
Students are required to study modules worth 180 credits, of which a maximum of 60 credits must be obtained from taught modules at Level 4 or from the Research Training Programme run by the Researcher Academy (formerly the Graduate School) or other units offering generic training within the University, or from within any other relevant training courses run within Schools. The remaining 120-180 credits must be obtained from a thesis module at Level 4. Any taught modules and research training taken must be clearly cognate with the student’s research topic. Supervision while undertaking the thesis module will be as set out in the module specification and in line with the requirements for supervision contained in the regulations for research degrees.
4.
The University’s Quality and Standards Committee has approved a variation in the number of taught credits required for this programme, as permitted under Regulation 4. of the University’s Regulations for the degree of Master of Research (MRes).
Transfer to PhD
5.
A candidate shall not be permitted to count the same period of research for both the degree of Master of Research (MRes) and the degree of PhD.  However a candidate for the MRes degree may, after a period of not less than nine months study for the MRes and prior to the submission of the thesis, with the approval of the supervisor and Head of School (or equivalent), submit a transfer form to the University for permission to be registered as a candidate for the degree of PhD instead of a Master of Research.  The period of registration for the degree of PhD should normally be three years (and not less than two years) full-time from the initial date of registration for the MRes.
Assessment
Includes:
module specifications; submitting thesis before end of registered study; viva voce examinations
6.
The assessment of all modules is as set out in the specifications for those modules. In regard to the thesis module, the maximum word length of the thesis is adjusted in accordance with the number of taught credits undertaken: such that a thesis module 120 credits should not exceed 25,000 words, a thesis of 140 credits should not exceed 30,000 words, a thesis of 160 credits should not exceed 35,000 words and a thesis of 180 credits should not exceed 40,000 words. The maximum word limit is inclusive of appendices, footnotes, tables but not the bibliography. The Thesis should embody the result of the candidate’s advanced study and research.
7.
Students are required to submit their thesis prior to the end of the period of registered study. A electronic version, saved as a searchable PDF, should be submitted to the relevant Registry and Academic Affairs PGR team or equivalent, who will forward the thesis to the Examiners. The thesis should not, whether in the same or a different form, have been submitted to this or any other University for the award of any degree.
8.
The thesis must be the result of the student’s own work. The requirement does not preclude a student obtaining limited assistance with proof-reading and with the routine collection and/or processing of data under guidelines and instructions clearly devised by the student. When such help is obtained it should be with the prior approval of the supervisor who must be satisfied that the spirit of the 'own work' requirement is not breached.
9.
The thesis is examined by both an External Examiner and an Internal Examiner appointed under the regulations governing the assessment of research degrees, who should provide independent reports on the thesis, indicating whether the thesis module has been passed; and also whether a viva voce examination is necessary. Where a viva voce examination is required by the examiners, this should be conducted in line with the relevant regulations for MPhil degrees.
For more information about the Viva voce examinations, please consult the following:
Viva voce examinations
Outcomes of examination
Includes:
award of degree; where a student obtains a fail mark or failed thesis or training credits; nottingham etheses service
10.
The degree is awarded where all taught modules and training credits and the thesis module have been passed. The pass mark for all taught modules is 50%, but marks of 40%-49% can be compensated in up to 20 credits if the overall average for the taught modules taken is 50% or over. Training credits will be assessed on a pass/fail basis.
11.
Where a student obtains a fail mark in a taught module, or fails the thesis module or training credits, the student has one further opportunity to pass those modules. All reassessments must be completed within one year of the end of the student's period of registered study.
12.
The qualification awarded to the student will include the subject of study undertaken as notified to the student at the time of admission.
13.
Successful candidates will be eligible to graduate once their thesis has been uploaded to the University’s etheses service and approved by the Internal Examiner or, in cases where there are two external examiners, the lead External Examiner.  For more information, please consult the following:
Nottingham eTheses
Students from countries that are not familiar with the MRes qualification may, alternatively, be awarded a MA or MSc by Research in order not to disadvantage those students.  The regulations for these awards will, though, be exactly the same as for the MRes. This will also be permitted, with QSC approval, where required by professional, regulatory or accrediting bodies.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/international-campuses-and-qa.aspx
Header: International campuses and quality assurance
Intro: This page sets out the principles, responsibilities and guidance on particular areas surrounding quality assurance at the international campuses. This information is primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia.
Content:
International campuses and quality assurance - The University of NottinghamInternational campuses and quality assurance
This page sets out the principles, responsibilities and guidance on particular areas surrounding quality assurance at the international campuses. This information is primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia.1.0 Introduction/Overview
The policy framework for quality assurance in which academic schools have provision across multiple campuses is outlined below.
2.0 Purpose
The key aim of the principles is to ensure parity of experience and the maintenance of academic standards across all three campuses.  This is crucial to maintaining value of our degrees and to meet the requirements of the regulators in each of the jurisdiction in which we operate.
3.0 Scope
This applies to staff and students in schools which have provision across multiple campuses.
4.0 Key Principles
Schools may have provision on one or more campus for which they have responsibility. The nature of the relationship and therefore responsibility will differ for UNM and UNNC but the principles will hold.
The principle of the UK having the Degree Awarding Power means that in practice all provision on all campuses must be clearly owned by a single School (even where delivery may be joint and there is no single equivalent UK School). This ensures that the same protocols around awarding of degrees is maintained
Where a UK School has delegated specific functions to a unit on an international campus, it should be clear that this unit forms part of that School or, at least, is performing those specific functions on behalf of that School.
1
1
This principle is of particular significance in those instances in which there is joint involvement by UK campus (UNUK) based Schools in relation to provision of a degree programme in either University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM) or University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC).
4.1 Responsibilities
Schools have all the responsibilities set out in the Quality Manual for their entire provision across all campuses. It is the responsibility of the individual School to determine the most appropriate approach to operating its quality assurance process within the context of the broad principles outlined in the Quality Manual. Where Quality Assurance responsibilities have been delegated to particular role holders or units on the international campuses, this should be formally documented and appropriate protocols put in place via the Statement of Responsibility. Schools may have multiple Statements of Responsibilities in order to facilitate differing arrangements for different programmes/ groups of programme.
The Heads of School at each campus to which a Statement of Responsibilities applies should each sign-off a completed template. Schools may choose to give considerable autonomy to units on international campuses, but necessarily retain a responsibility to exercise a general monitoring function to ensure that the policies and procedures in the Quality Manual are being carried out appropriately.
There is an annual process to confirm continued validity of Statements of Responsibility and an opportunity for any changes to be discussed and reflected in the documentation.
Statement of Responsibilities template
Where the activities of the School have repercussions for the provision of other Schools on the international campuses, or for the overall management of the campuses, the relevant managers on the international campus (e.g. the Provost, Vice Provost or Dean) must be fully involved in decision-making and there should be joint agreement as to the actions taken. By the same token, decisions of the international campus management that have repercussions for the academic activities of other Schools should be arrived at jointly with those Schools.
In regard to the above, and to the guidance section below, decisions made at an international campus can be regarded as having the agreement of Schools and of international campus management, so long as Schools have delegated the necessary authority to their staff on the campus.
In cases where agreement cannot be arrived at between Schools and the international campus management, the matter should be referred to the University's Education and Student Experience Committee (in regard to matters of academic policy) or to the Pro-Vice Chancellor (PVC) for Global Engagement (in regard to strategic or operational matters).
Professional Services have a responsibility for ensuring that University policies and procedures take account of the needs of all campuses and the implementation of them is supported on all campuses. This involves either direct or indirect responsibility for relevant professional services on the international campuses in co-operation with the senior management of the international campuses.
4.2 Delegation of responsibility (in relation to the international campuses)
Oversight of academic responsibilities and the extent of delegating decision-making to units on specific campuses is at the discretion of individual Schools. However, when making these determinations, the following principles must always be followed:
In terms of organisational structure, academic staff in a given subject area at any campus should be regarded as members of the relevant School (although it is noted that contracts of employments may reside with separate legal entities).
A clear protocol should exist across campuses to ensure that the appointment process makes full use of recognised expertise among existing staff when making new appointments.
Any modules delivered across multiple campuses must observe the same standards of learning outcomes and cover the same core subject matter. It is a fundamental requirement that the content of teaching programmes is equivalent although it does not necessarily have to be identical. The title, structure (outside of compulsory modules) and content may vary between campuses so long as the learning outcomes remain the same.
The development of individual modules and overall degree programmes should be regarded as a collaborative process which involves staff across all campuses.
Where the same programmes and modules are offered on more than one campus, it is the Head of School’s responsibility to ensure that all modifications to this provision and the manner of its delivery are communicated and implemented across all campuses.
The status of internal examiners is equal across all campuses; where examination boards meet at the international campuses, these should be considered as having the same status as UK examination boards.
Staff on all campuses should have the opportunity to participate in the assessment process and in award recommendations (including participation in final examination boards); a reasonable expectation might be at least one representative from international campus examination boards at the final external board. Where this is not possible, the School must ensure that there is someone present who can fully represent the view of the examiners at the relevant campus.
Staff based at the international campuses should have the opportunity to contribute equally to the operation of quality assurance within their School.
The senior management of the international campuses should be consulted about specific quality assurance arrangements at School-level and their agreement secured insofar as they affect the function of those campuses.
The Educational Enhancement and Assurance Review (EEAR) process will review academic units at the international campuses as part of the review of a UK School. Additional reviews may be conducted as a result of local requirements and separate Campus Reviews will focus on issues regarding context and environment rather than addressing the specific provision of individual academic units.
4.3 Guidance on particular areas
4.3.1 Admissions
Schools should agree entry criteria in discussion with UNM/UNNC management. Implementation of these admissions criteria is undertaken by the UNM/UNNC management with academic decision-making as necessary by relevant academic units.
4.3.2 Internal programme approval
In all cases, Schools should submit business cases and programme specifications in consultation with UNM/UNNC management to Student Services/Registry and Academic Affairs (Curriculum Approvals and Advisory Team). The Provost and Vice-Provost for the relevant campus have the authority to sign off the business case, with approval for the programme specification resting with Quality and Standards Committee (QSC). The Vice-Provost, on the basis of advice and guidance from Student Services/Registry and Academic Affairs, will confirm that the proposed programme is aligned with the University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (UNQF), the University’s study regulations and any other relevant Quality Manual provisions. If the programme deviates from these provisions in any regard, then approval is also required from the Pro-Vice Chancellor (PVC) Education and Student Experience.
For more information about these areas, please consult the following:
Quality and Standards Committee
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
Academic regulations
In the case of new programmes that are delivered jointly by the international campuses and the UK campus (UNUK) (e.g. 2+2 programmes), or are programmes currently delivered in the UK that will in future be delivered also at University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM)/University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC), the Business Case is considered by the Provost of the relevant campus, in addition to the standard process for new Programme Approval.
Where a campus is proposing to run a programme which already exists on another campus, only the business case needs formal approval but the Programme Specification must be reviewed by QSC and the relevant campus to ensure that local delivery plans and the overarching programme specification are consistent. With respect to such ‘based on’ programmes, the new version of the programme will include the same learning outcomes and compulsory modules as the original version.
2
2
An existing Programme Specification might require revision to reflect variations in the number and range of optional subjects available which might include an increased number of compulsory modules at a campus with a more limited range of options available.
There is also an expectation that the title of the new programme should be the same as the original version.
3
3
Whilst the expectation is that the new version of the programme will retain the same title as the original version, it is recognised that there may be circumstances where this is not possible, eg in order to meet to local regulatory or statutory requirements.
The Partnership Relations and Projects team within External Relations should also be informed of any proposed new programme. For programmes approved for delivery on UNM, other than those subject to professional body accreditation, 'self-accreditation' (comprising QSC receiving information confirming the satisfactory operation of the programme on UNM) must be undertaken before the first cohort of students has completed the programme.
For more information about programme approvals, please consult the following:
Programme design, development and approval
4.3.3 Module approval
Schools submit module specifications in consultation with international campus management to Student Services/Registry and Academic Affairs (Curriculum Approvals and Advisory Team). Where a module (as defined by its title
4
and learning outcomes) already exists on one of the campuses, no separate approval is required.
4
Similarly, the expectation is that modules will retain the same title unless there are circumstances which mean this is not appropriate, e.g. local Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies (PSRB) requirements.
The content, delivery format and assessment of the same module may vary between campuses, so long as the learning outcomes remain constant. In sanctioning such module differences across the campuses, the consequences of such differences on the effectiveness of student transfer between campuses must be addressed.
4.3.4 Changes to programmes and modules
In those instances where approval of changes is required from beyond the School (the circumstances are set out in the relevant passages of the Quality Manual), the amended programme or module specification should be submitted by the School, in consultation with the international campus management, to Student Services/Registry and Academic Affairs (Curriculum Approvals and Advisory Team) for subsequent approval by the relevant committee.
4.3.5 Campus reviews, Educational enhancement, assurance reviews and annual monitoring
Campus reviews are a cyclical process, typically every 5/6 years and follow a similar process to the Quality Assurace Agency (QAA) Transnational Education review (TNE).  Reviews of programmes delivered on international campuses form part of the Educational Enhancement and Assurance Review (EEAR) process. On an annual basis programmes at UNM/UNNC will contribute to the annual monitoring process. For more information, please consult the following:
Educational Enhancement and Assurance Review
4.3.6 Assessment, progression and awards
Creation of assessments and the marking thereof can be fully delegated to staff on international campuses at the discretion of individual Schools. Some moderation and comparison of performance outcomes should normally be undertaken at module level. There should be a single Board of Examiners for programmes taught on more than one campus with representation (physical or via Microsoft Teams) from all campuses; again, comparison of student performance outcomes should normally be undertaken at both stage and degree award levels.
4.3.7 School committees
A School's international campus staff should have the opportunity to be fully represented on School committees including at senior management level.
5
5
According to the circumstances of individual Schools this may range from formal video conferenced meetings, to virtual attendance via circulation of papers or regular one-to-one meetings with relevant colleagues. The key requirement is that there is an identifiable mechanism for representatives from the international campuses to engage with and be heard during School decision making processes.
A School's approach to internal communications should ensure that the international campuses are fully informed of all developments and are involved in decision-making. While it is for the individual School to determine the most appropriate mechanism for this to occur, it may be worth noting that many Schools have found it helpful to identify a Director of Internationalisation who has specific responsibility in this area.
4.3.8 Appointment of staff
Schools retain responsibility for staff appointed on the international campuses where the role is within a School and should have an agreed process for making such appointments.
6
6
Each School/ Department /Faculty’s positions on this should be set out in their Statement of Responsibilities
4.3.9 Personal tutors
Schools should ensure that their tutoring arrangements as set out in their tutoring statements are operating appropriately across all campuses on which they are represented.
7
7
Clarification of where responsibility for tutoring statements and tutoring arrangements lie should be outlined in a School/ Department/ Faculty’s Statement of Responsibilities (i.e. Head of School in the UK, Head of School at each campus etc).
4.3.10 Student feedback
Schools should ensure that Staff and Student committtees (i.e Learning Community Forums or Staff Student Forums), Student Evaluation of Module (SEM) and any other related processes for securing School-level student feedback are operating on the international campuses and that proper consideration is given to feedback.
8
8
Clarification of where responsibility for Student Feedback in each School/ Department/ Faculty lies should be set out in their Statement of Responsibilities.
4.3.11 Complaints and appeals
Schools should consider student complaints and academic appeals in accordance with the principles of the associated policies and the relevant published procedures. Any local deviations from core procedures must be approved by QSC and accessible to relevant students.
4.3.12 Research students
Schools have responsibility for ensuring that Quality Manual requirements are implemented for their research students on the international campuses.
9
9
Arrangements for responsibility of this implementation should be set out in each School/ Department/ Faculty’s Statement of Responsibilities.
4.3.13 Students with disabilities
Schools and the international campus management should arrange jointly for a Disability Liaison Officer (DLO) to be available for all international campus students.
For more information about the DLO role, please consult the following:
Students with disabilities
4.3.14 Careers information, advice and guidance
Schools, international campus management and the Careers and Employability Service have joint responsibility for ensuring that careers advice is delivered to international campus students in line with the Quality Manual.
10
10
Arrangements for responsibility of aspects of Careers Information, Advice and Guidance that fall to the School should be set out in the School/ Department/ Faculty’s Statement of Responsibilities.
4.3.15 Communications and staff visits
Given the use of different email domains in UNNC and UNM, Schools and Professional services should identify appropriate mechanisms to ensure that information flows between different locations in a timely fashion. Face-to-face meetings can be of particular value and, while noting the University’s carbon management plan, a limited number of annual visits (in both directions) would be considered desirable.
5.0 Version control table
Version control table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework; Content also reviewed and updated to reflect the current relationship between UNUK, UNM and UNNC
QSC
March 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
13 May 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-regs-deg-phd-mphil.aspx
Header: Regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) and Master of Philosophy (MPhil)
Intro: This page contains the regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) and Master of Philosophy (MPhil). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) and Master of Philosophy (MPhil) - The University of NottinghamRegulations for the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) and Master of Philosophy (MPhil)
This page contains the regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) and Master of Philosophy (MPhil). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
All teaching and assessment must be in English when students are registered for a University of Nottingham qualification. The only exception is where the subject of study is a language or literature other than English.
These regulations state the minimum requirements for students undertaking a PhD or MPhil. Where any other body, such as a sponsor or collaborative partner, is involved in a student’s study, additional requirements may be agreed and must be satisfied in order for the student to be considered for an award.
Admission requirements
1.
Requirements for admission to a research degree are set out in the University of Nottingham’s Quality Manual in the section entitled Admissions, which can be found here:
Admissions
Course of study
Includes:
frameworks; full-time students undertaking paid employment; counting same period of registration; staff submitting publications; submission by a staff candidate for a research degree document; part-time students
2.
Periods of registration for these degrees are as set out in the University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (UNQF). For more information about the UNQF, please consult the following:
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
The student’s School may permit up to one year of registration at Nottingham (two years in the case of part-time students) to be replaced by prior study at another institution.
3.
Full-time students may only undertake paid employment with the permission of their School and in accordance with the requirements of any scholarship they hold. In approving a request to undertake such employment, a School must assure itself that such work will not interfere with the student’s programme of study.
4.
A student is not permitted to count the same period of registration for both the degree of MPhil and the degree of PhD. However, a student registered for an MPhil degree may, with the permission of their School, be allowed to transfer their registration to a PhD degree. The procedure for transferring registration is set out below in paragraphs 12 and 13 of the annual review and progression section. It is also possible to transfer from a Master’s degree by examination course to the degree of MPhil with the permission of the School.
5.
Members or former members of the University staff may submit publications for a research degree of the University but must do so in accordance with the published supplementary regulations for staff candidates.  The PhD by publication route is not available for candidates wishing to register at UNNC.
Submission of published works guidance for staff candidates and advisors
6.
For part-time students registered on a standard research degree programme (i.e not a staff candidate route) and holding an appointment within the University, the minimum period of registration may be reduced to three years.
PGR Progression monitoring and formal Progression Review
Includes:
confirmation review; minimum elements of a progression review; final progression review; possible outcomes
7.
All postgraduate researchers (PGRs) registered on research degrees lasting more than one year full-time or two years part-time (e.g. MPhil or Professional Doctorates but not MRes etc) are subject to progression monitoring throughout the year and formal assessment at Progression Review, usually annually. The purpose of progression monitoring and review is to ensure that the PGR is making satisfactory progress towards successfully completing their research and thesis examination (including any viva voce examination) to the required standard in the appropriate time.
For more information on the maximum period from initial registration for completion of studies, please consult the following:
Maximum period from initial registration for completion of studies
The basic principles of the formal Progression Review are common to all research candidates  and all years of their programme. There are specific requirements relating to PGRs registered for a PhD dependent on the length and stage of the candidate’s  programme of study.
For more information on the process and structure of PGR progression monitoring and review, please consult the following:
PGR Progression Review - Process Map
8.
PGR progression monitoring occurs through regular meetings with the supervisory team beginning on first registration and continuing throughout the programme of study. The supervision records form part of the formal assessment in Progression Review at each Stage of study.
If /when the supervisors feel that the PGR's progress during the year is unsatisfactory this must be discussed with the PGR and recorded in the supervison record.
All doctoral PGR's should aim to complete the thesis examination within a maximum of four years of first registration irrespective of programme duration, unless the PGR holds an award with terms and conditions that vary this maximum period and the School approves the arrangement.
For more detailed information about the informal and formal aspects of the Progression Review process for research students, please consult the following:
Progression review of research students
9.
Stages of PGR Study and Progression, and timing of formal Progression Reviews
Formal assessment of progression through the Progression Review will take place at a time appropriate for the PGR and/or aligned with a School annual process, but should normally be completed by the end of each completed year of study. It is strongly recommended that preparations for the formal Progression Review assessment (e.g. submission of the written report) should begin before the PGR has completed nine months of each year of study and that reviews are held around the nine-month period. This is to allow for any remedial actions on progress and required re-assessment to be completed within the year of study.
For PGRs registered for non-doctoral degrees (e.g. MPhil), progression from Stage 1 usually occurs after the first year of full-time study (with equivalent pro rata timing for part-time PGRs). For these PGRs Stage 2 can be omitted, and Stage 3 represents confirmation of satisfactory progression towards thesis completion and submission. This is determined by assessment of the PGR’s progress towards the level 7 QAA and UNQF outcomes at Stage 3 Progression review.
For more information about the UNQF, please consult the following:
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
For doctoral PGRs on 3 and 3.5 year programmes:
In Stage 1, the status of doctoral PGRs as doctoral candidates is probationary. Progression Review to Stage 2 includes confirmation that 1) the PGR is meeting the appropriate published criteria  and 2) their status as doctoral candidates.
For more information about Assessment criteria for Progression Reviews, please consult the following:
Assessment criteria for Progression Reviews
Stage 2 Progression Review confirms the PGR has demonstrated sufficient progress to achieve the doctoral outcomes within the next 12-18 months with reference to the published criteria. Stage 3 Progression Review confirms the achievement of progress sufficient to meet the doctoral outcomes at thesis examination within 6 months. Progression to Stage 3 will therefore normally occur approximately 6 months before the end of the period of registered study.
And
For doctoral PGRs on 4 year programmes containing a large component of mandatory elements in the first year of registered study, such as substantial training and development requirements, taught modules, or laboratory / research project rotations, Stage 1 Progression Review should take place at the most appropriate time for the PGR depending on the programme, but prior to the end of the second year (and the review processes thereafter on an annual basis). Subsequent Progression Reviews are scheduled at the same intervals/times as for 36 and 42 month programmes as above.
The formal assessment at Stage 3 Progression Review is expected to be held at least 6 months before the end of the period of registered study with a view to thesis examination within this period. If progress is insufficient for thesis submission within the period of registered study, a further Stage 3 Progression Review may take place during the Thesis-pending period.
For more information about the Thesis-pending period, please consult the following:
Thesis-pending period
The Stage 3 Progression Review can be conducted by the supervisory team but should not be conducted by a single supervisor. It is strongly recommended that where possible the Internal Assessor is also involved in the Stage 3 Progression Review for continuity and quality assurance purposes.
For more information on required timelines for Progression Review and timings, please consult the following:
Progression review of research students
10.   Minimum elements of the formal assessment at Progression Review
Progression Reviews at Stages 1 and 2 must involve an Internal Assessor. Continued involvement of the Internal Assessor is recommended at Stage 3 Progression Review. The appointment of the Internal Assessor should be confirmed to the PGR and School at least 3 months prior to the start of the Stage 1 formal Progression Review process. More than one Internal Assessor may be appointed if required for specific reasons.
For more information on role, responsibilities and appointment of the Internal Assessor, please consult the following:
Role and responsibilities of the Internal Assessor
Progression Reviews at Stages 1 and 2 should use the core Review elements below, and may include additional methods of assessment deemed necessary by Schools, to assess progress to date against the Stage appropriate published criteria. When including additional elements Schools must pay due regard to PGR and Assessor assessment load.
For more information about Assessment criteria for Progression Reviews, please consult the following:
Assessment criteria for Progression Reviews
The following elements should be included in the formal Progression Review process:
A meeting between the PGR and Internal Assessor for assessment of the written report and plans for the research.
Formative verbal feedback on performance from the Internal Assessor at the end of the meeting, whether performance was good or poor;
Independent written assessments from the Internal Assessor and supervisory team on the PGR’s performance to date, and a response from the PGR.
Confirmation that the required minimum number of supervision sessions has taken place, that supervision records are available, and that these record the progress made to date highlighting any problems encountered.
Where required for the programme, provision of evidence to the Internal Assessor that the PGR has attended any modules and passed any assessments that form a compulsory part of their research programme.
Where the PGR is sponsored and reports have been submitted to the sponsor during the year, the content of those reports should form part of the consideration.
For more detail on the requirements on the different aspects of the Progression Review, please consult the following:
Progression review of research students
The Stage 3 Progression Review can be conducted by the supervisory team but should not be conducted by a single supervisor. It is however strongly recommended that where possible the Internal Assessor is involved in the Stage 3 Progression Review.
Progression Review at Stage 3 (progression to thesis examination) must include all the elements above with the following additions and adjustments to assess progress towards achievement of doctoral outcomes:
a detailed consideration of progress, including the progress already made on writing the thesis, and a detailed plan for thesis completion and submission within the period of registered study.
If submission within the registered period of study for the programme (for 36 or 42 month programmes) is not deemed possible based on progress to date, then plans should address how the PGR will ensure final thesis examination within a maximum of 4 years (for doctoral PGRs) from first registration. This should include discussion of any exceptional circumstances, unforeseen problems and mitigations that have been necessary to ensure progression and timely completion.
If a PGR has extenuating circumstances which may affect their attendance at or performance in the Progression Review, they should refer to the policy and procedure for extenuating circumstances to request an extension to the date set for the Progression Review.
For more information on circumstances affecting the ability to complete the Progression Review assessment, please consult the following:
Policy on circumstances affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments
11.   Formal Progression Review recommendations
For PGRs undergoing Progression Review at all Stages:
In light of the review at Stages 1 and 2, the internal assessor and the supervisory team should first provide independent reports on the PGR's progress. The PGR should be invited to respond to these reports. The reports and response should be discussed and a joint recommendation on progress made to the PGR’s Head of School on the outcome.
If the Internal Assessor and supervisory team cannot agree on the recommendation, the supervisory team and Internal Assessor should discuss the review with the Head of School in order to reach an agreement. The PGR should also be aware of such discussions, and where appropriate be included in them.
For more information on resolution of Progression Review outcomes please consult the following:
Progression review of research students
PGR Progression Review - Process Map
For probationary doctoral PGRs at Stage 1 review:
As above, including whether the joint recommendation includes confirmation of PhD registration to the PGR’s Head of School.
For doctoral PGRs at Stage 3 review:
As above, including an additional statement on whether plans for thesis completion are sufficiently robust to result in completion of a thesis of the required quality and examination within the period of registered study, OR if not, completion of a thesis of the required quality and examination within a maximum of 4 years from initial registration.
All reports on the outcome of the Review, and all supervision records should be available to the assessing staff and the PGR.
12.   The possible outcomes of formal Progression Review
Where the Supervisory team and Internal Assessor recommendations agree, the joint recommendation to the University can be either:
That the PGR progresses to the next stage:
For Stage 1 PhD PGRs, this includes confirmation of PhD status.
For all Stages, this means re-registration in the following academic session on the same degree (unless the PGR has reached the end of the registered length of the programme).
For PGRs in Stage 3 who have reached the end of their period of registered study and who have satisfied the minimum period of registration and completed their research, the recommendation will be entry to the thesis completion and submission period.
For PGRs at all Stages: With the agreement of the PGR, the recommendation in the joint report can be to transfer registration to another, usually higher, degree (e.g. from MPhil to PhD).
For more information on the necessary process required before transfer, please consult the following:
Progression review of research students
Or
That the PGR does not progress to the next stage and has an opportunity for reassessment:
At all Stages, this recommendation includes a referral for reassessment. The PGR is registered/re-registered for PhD in the following academic session. Stage 1 PGR's remain on probationary status until successful re-assessment and confirmation of Stage 1 progression.
For Stage 3 PGRs who have made insufficient progress to allow them to meet the doctoral outcomes within the following 6 months, the assessors may recommend a reassessment of the PGR's ability to meet the doctoral outcomes after 3 months, with a plan of supportive or corrective action.
For Stage 3 PGR's who have made insufficient progress in the research to allow them  to meet the doctoral outcomes and submit the thesis for examination within the following 6 months, the assessors may recommend an exceptional extension to the PGR’s period of registration for up to one further year. Reassessment for progression to Stage 3 should be done after no more than 6 months. Thesis completion and examination are still expected within the 4 year maximum period.
The maximum number of Progression Reviews at any stage is limited to two unless extenuating circumstances are accepted, in which case a further First Sit Progression Review may be conducted.
In these cases, supervisory records must be kept, and should be available for the re-assessment.
Or
That the PGR does not progress to the next stage, and:
At all Stages, and with the agreement of the PGR, the PGR transfers to registration for another degree (e.g. from PhD to MPhil, or MPhil to MRes) without the need for re-assessment. In this case formal transfer of degree must be done.
The reasons for a recommendation for reassessment or registration on another degree must be explained to the PGR as soon as possible. When reassessment is required, the specific requirements for improvement must be made clear. Where the Internal Assessor is likely to make this recommendation, this should be fed back verbally at the Progression Review meeting.
The supervisory team can be invited to attend the Progression Review for the informal feedback from the Internal Assessor.
If the independent recommendations from the Supervisory team and Internal Assessor disagree, this should be resolved by discussion, which may involve the Head of School or delegate. Once resolved, the processes for ‘Progression recommended’ or ‘Progression not recommended’ should be followed.
For further details on the resolution process in the event of such a disagreement, please consult the following.
Progression review of research students
PGR Progression Review - Process Map
13.   Reassessment of progression
When reassessment is required before progression can be confirmed, PGRs must be given the requirements for improved performance with SMART objectives/goals, and agree with the assessors an appropriate and defined timeframe in which to meet these. The PGR must be aware of the possible outcomes of the reassessment process (Section 14) and must receive support in achieving the required improvements.
Reassessment of progression has the same format as the Progression Review.
For further information on the requirements and processes for PGRs recommended for remedial support and reassessment, please consult the following:
Progression review of research students
14.
The possible outcomes of re-assessment Progression Reviews are:
If performance in the re-assessment meets the stated criteria, and the required improvement has been made as agreed by the assessors, the recommendation by the School to the University should be that:
For Stage 1 PhD, PGRs receive confirmation of doctoral status.
At all Stages, the PGR is re-registered on the same degree.
PGRs in Stage 3 who have reached the end of their period of registered study and who have satisfied the minimum period of registration and completed their research enter the thesis completion and submission period.
If performance in the re-assessment does not meet the criteria and the required improvement has not been achieved as agreed by the supervisory team, Internal Assessor and PGR, the recommendation by the School to the University should be that, for all PGRs at all stages:
the PGR is required to re-register on another, usually lower degree (e.g. PhD to MPhil, MPhil to MRes).
Or
the PGR’s registration be terminated.
Termination of registration can only be recommended when supported by evidence that the PGR has received written warnings on lack of progress during the period of study, and the period of supported improvement. In all such cases, all records of supervisory meetings and the Progression Review process must be submitted to QSC for scrutiny and approval before termination of registration.
Thesis-pending period
Includes:
exceptional circumstances; Application for an Extension to the Thesis-pending Period document; examples that would/not warrant an extension
15.
Students whose programme of study lasts for less than 4 years (8 years in the case of part-time students) and who have completed their research and the period of registered study as required by regulations may enter the thesis-pending period. In all cases the thesis must be submitted within 4 years (full-time) or 8 years (part-time) of the start of study or within 12 months (full-time) or 24 months (part-time) of the end of registration, whichever is the lesser unless the terms and conditions of a studentship held by an individual vary this.
In the Thesis-pending period the student will be entitled to the use of library facilities and University computing facilities but not to facilities for research. The PGR and supervisors must continue to meet regularly,
in line with minimum requirements
. Supervisors must read and comment on one draft of the candidate’s thesis prior to each submission (as appropriate), when submitted within the required timeframes for feedback to be given.
More information on the Thesis-pending period can be found here:
Thesis-pending period (including Policy on extension)
16.
In exceptional circumstances an extension to the Thesis-pending period may be granted subject to the following conditions.  Requests for extensions will only be considered as a result of circumstances affecting the Thesis-pending period, and not for the period of registered study. If an extension request is granted, the fee listed in the University's Fees Schedule will be payable.
More information on tuition fees and the University's fees schedule can be found here:
Student fees and finance
(a)
Applications for an extension to the Thesis-pending period should be submitted to a Student Service Centre or equivalent for consideration on behalf of the University, using the application form available from here.
Thesis-pending period (including Policy on extension)
(b)
Other than in exceptional circumstances applications will only be considered if received by a Student Service Centre no less than 3 months in advance of the Thesis-pending period.
(c)
All applications require the support of the student's School.
All applications should include a plan detailing:
which thesis chapters are complete
what work remains to be done on incomplete chapters
a time-line for the completion of outstanding work and a date for submission of the completed thesis.
17.
Acceptable and unacceptable circumstances:
The following circumstances may result in an extension being granted:
Exceptional personal circumstances (e.g. illness, hospitalisation, accident) if significantly impacting on the writing-up process (or resubmission/minor corrections process relating to paragraph 37 below)
Maternity
Paternity
Death of a close relative, or illness of a close relative where the student is the carer
Illness or death of a partner
Prolonged jury service
Expeditions for sport of national significance (providing the extension is acceptable to the student’s funding body)
Requirement for a student to undertake military service.
The following are examples of circumstances which would not normally warrant an extension:
Taking up employment during the Thesis-pending period or resubmission/minor corrections process relating to paragraph 37 (of the Extension to a resubmission period or of time allowed for minor corrections section below)
voluntary service overseas.
Submission of thesis
Includes:
after registered study and before conclusion of Thesis-pending period; notification of submission; soft bound copies and electronic versions of thesis; role of proof readers; alternative formats for thesis submission; key documents
18.
Students are required to submit a thesis for examination after their period of registered study and before the conclusion of the Thesis-pending period. A student must give formal notice to their School of their intention to submit their thesis. The School should ensure that a Student Service Centre or equivalent office is informed so that the procedure for appointing examiners can be initiated.
Thesis Submission
19.
An electronic version saved as a searchable PDF, should be submitted to a Student Services or equivalent in a form prescribed by the University, which will forward the thesis to the Examiners. Soft bound copies may be required. PGRs are encouraged to publish papers in advance of submission of their thesis and prior publication of papers arising from the research being undertaken should not prejudice the assessment of the thesis.
20.
The thesis must be written by the student and be the result of the student’s own work. It must be the result of work done mainly while the student is registered as a student of this University. This requirement does not preclude a student obtaining limited assistance with proof-reading and with the routine collection and/or processing of data under guidelines and instructions clearly devised by the student. When such help is obtained it should be with the prior approval of the supervisor who must be satisfied that the spirit of the 'own work' requirement is not breached.
The Role of Proofreaders
A proofreader may only ensure that the meaning of the author is not misrepresented due to the quality and standard of the English used. This can include correcting spelling and basic grammar errors. Inaccuracies in academic content should not be corrected nor should the structure of the piece of work be changed; doing so may result in a charge of plagiarism.
At UNM, generally, a thesis should have a minimum of 10,000 words. The Senate or the equivalent authority in the University can use its discretion in cases where a thesis does not comply with the word limit but meets all other requirements.
21.
The thesis should not be more than 100,000 words in the case of PhD or 60,000 words in the case of MPhil (in both cases inclusive of appendices, footnotes, tables, and bibliography); the University may withhold from examination a thesis that exceeds these word limits.
22.
Alternative formats for submission may apply. For certain doctorates (Music, Creative Writing, Drama and Performance Practice as Research, Translation Studies) an appendix detailing submission requirements is available. For more information, please consult the following:
Alternative formats for thesis submission
Submission by Published Works may also be permitted.
Submission for research degree by published works
23.
Students may offer performance work for assessment alongside the thesis as supplementary evidence for the ideas and arguments put forward in written form. Where such evidence is submitted, a permanent record of that evidence should be included with the version of the thesis that is lodged in the University Library.
24.
If a thesis includes work which is politically, commercially or industrially sensitive, the student’s School may apply to the University for access to the thesis in the University libraries to be restricted. The restriction may be for a period not exceeding two years in the first instance with the possibility of an extension of that period up to a maximum of five years.
More information on the assessment of research students can be found here:
Assessment
25.
In circumstances where it is appropriate to the student’s discipline, students are required to submit all data collected during the period of study as a research student of this University to their School prior to arrangement of the viva voce examination. Failure to do so may mean that the thesis is withheld from examination.
Examination
Includes:
examiner submission of independent report; viva voce examination; alternative forms of examination; attendance
26.
The Examiners should submit independent reports on the thesis to a Student Service Centre or equivalent or the Head of School before the viva voce examination takes place. The reports should contain a full and frank assessment of the merits and weaknesses of the thesis. In the case of MPhil students, the reports should indicate whether a viva voce examination is necessary. If it is found not to be necessary, the Examiners should provide a recommendation as set out in Regulation 35 of the Outcomes of Examinations section on a Joint Report Form.
More information on Examiners can be found here:
Role and appointment of Examiners
27.
The School should seek to ensure that the viva voce examination takes place within 3 months of the submission of the thesis. The viva voce examination will normally take place at the University and in person. However, the Head of School or delegate may give permission in appropriate circumstances for the viva voce examination to be held in another location or through digital means, provided agreement of the Examiners and the student is obtained and the proposed location/format is one that is deemed by them all to be suitable for the purpose. The Head of School or delegate will confirm that the necessary conditions for a remote or online viva have been met when signing the Nomination of PGR Examiners form.
Guidance and recommendations on the conduct of a digital/online viva voce examination
28.
If circumstances allow or demand it, a viva voce examination may be organised in another form (e.g. by video conference/other online platform). Before agreeing such an arrangement the School must check that appropriate facilities for an online viva voce examination are available to all participants, and shall ensure they have written confirmation that the student and the Examiners have agreed to the proposal.
Guidance and recommendations on the conduct of a digital/online viva voce examination
Hybrid viva conditions, with some participants together and some remotely situated, should be avoided where possible. If this format is required, if and where possible, the candidate should be co-located with either the Internal Examiner or Independent Chair. Vivas with only the candidate located remotely are not permitted. If an online format of the viva voce is agreed by all parties, this cannot subsequently be used as grounds for a appeal. No evidence based on recordings of the viva will be permissible in any appeal process.
29.
An Independent Chair is not a requirement for a viva voce examination unless specific circumstances apply, such as conducting the viva online. The candidate or Head of School may request the appointment of an Independent Chair. An independent, non-examining chair must be appointed to preside over proceedings when specific circumstances apply, including at the request of the PGR.
Circumstances under which an Independent Chair should be appointed
If the PGR requests an Independent Chair on grounds of equality and diversity, they may also request that the appointment takes the diversity of the examining team into consideration.
When appointed, the Independent Chair will lead the viva, be present throughout and will provide a short report on the conduct of the viva. They will not take an active role in the examination or decision making other than supporting examiners to reach a decision with reference to the University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework/ QAA Framework for Higher Education Qualifications Award Descriptors.
Where the appointment of an Independent Chair is not required or requested, Schools should find alternative ways of assuring fairness and consistency which are acceptable to the student.
Circumstances under which an Independent Chair should be appointed
Appointment, role and responsibilities of the Independent Chair
30.
The Head of School has a right to attend the viva voce examination of any research student in their School, as an observer, unless they are the student's supervisor when a deputy may be appointed to attend in their place. Before the viva voce examination takes place the Head of School should first inform the Examiners, the Independent Chair (if appointed) and the PGR that they wish to attend. The Examiners may request that the Head of School attend a viva voce examination.
Supervisors may not attend the viva voce examination. If concerns about process or PGR support or performance are raised, an Independent Chair or the Head of School should attend.
If the viva voce is held online, the candidate may request that they have a supporter/observer present with them either for the entire viva or for the communication of the decision. This individual must not contribute to or participate in the viva in any way and must be introduced to all participants on camera at the start.
31.
The viva will include questions and discussions that determine whether the candidate has achieved the required doctoral outcomes.
For more information about the UNQF, please consult the following:
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
This will normally include questions and discussion designed to ascertain that the thesis embodies the candidate’s own research; clarify aspects of the research presented in the thesis to ensure understanding; test the candidate’s general comprehension of the field of study within which the subject of the thesis falls; test the candidate’s acquaintance with the general literature of the subject, and knowledge of the relation of the work to the wider field of which it is a part; and determine the respects in which the work advances, modifies, or otherwise affects the wider field of scholarship.
Outcomes of Examination
Includes:
completion of joint report form; frameworks; possible outcomes; resubmission; successful candidates
32.
Following the viva voce examination the Examiners should complete and sign the joint report form and come to agreement of the recommendation on the award (or not) of the degree. The student should be given immediate informal feedback on the recommended outcome of the examination and should be advised that more formal details will be transmitted later in writing. If the Examiners recommend that the degree should not be awarded and/or that the student should also be required to resubmit for the same or a different degree, the student should be provided with copies of the Examiners' reports. The Internal Examiner should also write to the student formally conveying the joint views of the Examiners on the submission, describing in detail the academic and presentational reasons for their recommendation, and (if appropriate) providing clear advice about what matters should be addressed in any resubmission.
33.
Research degrees will be awarded at Masters or Doctoral level to students who have demonstrated that they satisfy the relevant qualification descriptors contained in the University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (UNQF). For more information about the UNQF, please consult the following:
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
34.
The Examiners may recommend to the University the following outcomes of examination:
Award of degree for which the student is registered, or
Award of the degree subject to correction of typographical errors within one month
Award of the degree subject to minor amendments to be completed within 3 months*, or
Require the candidate to attend a second viva voce examination and resubmit the same thesis (which may be subject to minor amendments to be completed within 3 months*), or
Resubmit the thesis in a revised form within 12 months with/without attending a second viva voce examination, or
That no degree be awarded and that the candidate is not allowed to present themself again for examination for the degree for which the thesis was submitted.
35.
Where a thesis has been resubmitted and/or a second viva voce examination has occurred, the Examiners may recommend to the University the following outcomes of examination:
Award of degree for which the student is registered, or
Award of the degree subject to correction of typographical errors within one month, or
Award of the degree with minor amendments to be completed within 3 months to the satisfaction of the internal examiner*, or
(in the case of PhD students) Award of degree of MPhil without further conditions, or
(in the case of PhD students) Award of the degree of MPhil with minor amendments to be completed within 3 months*
No degree awarded and no further examination opportunity.
* Exceptionally, where a student has been previously registered as a part-time student and it has been demonstrated that circumstances exist such that it would be in the best interests of that student, the examiners may recommend that the degree be awarded subject to minor amendments being completed within 6 months.
36.
The joint report form is forwarded by the Examiners to the Head of School and they shall forward the independent and joint report forms to a Student Service Centre for approval by the University. The Student Service Centre or equivalent will inform the student of the University's decision.
37.
Successful candidates will be eligible to graduate once their thesis has been uploaded to the University’s etheses service and approved by the Internal Examiner or, in cases where there are two External Examiners, the lead External Examiner.
Extension to a resubmission period or of time allowed for minor corrections
38.
In exceptional circumstances an extension to the resubmission period or of time allowed for minor corrections may be granted using the procedure in paragraphs 15-16 in the Thesis-pending period section above. Regular supervisory meeting should continue to take place as outlined in paragraph 15 of these regulations.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 February 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/registration-and-attendance/changes-of-taught-course.aspx
Header: Changes of taught course
Intro: This page contains guidance for undergraduate and postgraduate taught students about how to change  course. Although primarily directed at students, this information may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Changes of taught course - The University of NottinghamChanges of taught course
This page contains guidance for undergraduate and postgraduate taught students about how to change  course. Although primarily directed at students, this information may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Please note that students in the UK on a Student Route visa are also affected by the University's Policy on Immigration Sponsorship. Where academic policies and immigration policies seem to be contradictory, immigration policies will take precedence. For more information, please consult the following:
Immigration sponsorship
Overview and form requirements
Includes:
options; request to transfer taught course form; responsibilities
1.1
Students may request to change from the course on which they are currently registered to another course offered by the University. They may either:
Change to the same stage of the new course as they were at on the old course (for example, completing the Qualifying Year of the old course and then beginning Part I of the new course); or
They may
go back one stage (for example, leaving the old course towards the end of the Qualifying Year and beginning the new course from the very start of the Qualifying Year).
1.2
Applicable to all Campuses
In all cases, the School that the student is leaving must be aware of the student's request and the school that the student is joining
must agree to the change. Not all courses offer the opportunity for transfer on to them, and students must follow the guidance below to see which courses may be available.
UNUK only
Students should check the following lists to determine course availability for an internal transfer:
Faculty of Arts
Faculty of Engineering
Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences
Faculty of Science
Faculty of Social Science
UNNC only
Students should refer to the Academic Services Office page on Moodle to determine course availability for internal transfer:
Academic Services Office
UNM only
Students should confirm course availability with the relevant school.
Applicable to all Campuses
For all transfers, students must meet the entry criteria for the course. Students must check that they meet the entry criteria on the online course catalogue before requesting a transfer.
Online course catalogue
A change of course form should be completed indicating the support of both Schools.
Request to transfer taught course form
In some cases, the agreement of the Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) to the change of course is also required. The ability to change course may also be subject to the student's immigration status. In the case of Joint Honours or major/minor courses, the administering School accepting or giving up a student should inform its partner School of the change.
1.3
There is no requirement on Schools to agree to a request for a course change, and Schools are free to turn down such requests.
1.4
Content in this policy referring to ‘students’ applies equally to apprentices unless otherwise stated. Apprentices considering a change of taught course are required to discuss the matter immediately with their employer and their School. There are implications to their current employment contract, their apprenticeship commitment statement and thus contractual arrangement with the University of Nottingham. If considering moving to a non-apprenticeship programme, the apprentice should note they would become personably responsible for their tuition fees whether as part time or full time student.
It is the responsibility of the student to determine whether there will be any difference in tuition fees as a result of the change of course and to check with their funding body whether the change will have any other financial implications.
Change of undergraduate course without going back a stage
Includes:
time limits; transfer criteria
2.1
All changes of course without going back a stage can only occur in the first three weeks of the session, or at the end of the Autumn semester, or at the end of the session (unless module choices for the old course satisfy those for the new course and so no change in module selection is required).
2.2
Where a student wishes to transfer at the end of the Autumn or Spring semester of the Qualifying Year without restarting the new course, the school responsible for the student's new course must be satisfied that the student has the necessary prerequisite knowledge to be able to perform adequately on that course.
2.3
Where a student wishes to transfer after the start of Part I without going back to the beginning of Part I of the new course, one of the following criteria must be met:
The change is agreed in the first three weeks of Part I; or
The change is to a related course, and the student has already taken all the Part I/II/III modules which they should have taken by this point in the new course; or
The student has not taken some or all of the Part I/II/III modules they should have taken by this point in the new course, but they will catch up by taking these modules at a later stage in their new course in place of options (in a manner which the School being joined must indicate in writing to accompany the change of course form); or
The student has not taken some or all of the Part I/II/III modules they should have taken by this point in the new course, but the supplementary regulations for that course allow the School to waive the need to take those modules.
2.4
If none of the criteria in 2.3 are met, but the School still wishes to recommend a change of course without going back to the start of Part I, a case
should be made for consideration on behalf of Quality and Standards Committee (QSC). The case should demonstrate that the student has already substantially achieved the learning outcomes of the modules they have missed, or will be able to do so during the rest of their new course.
2.5
If the change is made at the end of the Autumn semester, the marks from the old course will be used for progression and degree classification purposes along with the Spring semester marks from the new course (the Part I/II/III weightings for degree classification purposes will, however, be those for the new course). If a year-long module was being taken on the old course, the relevant School should be asked to allocate a mark for the Autumn semester element of the module on the basis of performance during that semester (which may mean placing a semester-long version of the module on relevant systems for this purpose).
2.6
If the change is made at the end of the session, it will be necessary for the student to be in a position to progress under University regulations (though not necessarily supplementary regulations) to the next stage of the old course before being allowed to begin the next year of the new course,
Please note that to transfer to another honours course, it is necessary to be able to progress to the next stage of the old honours (not ordinary) degree course.
Change of undergraduate course that includes going back part of a stage or more
Includes:
students who are progressing satisfactorily who choose to request a transfer of course; students who cannot progress on their original course and wish to transfer to another course
Students who are progressing satisfactorily who choose to request a transfer of course
3.1
Schools may, if they wish, agree to accept students who submit a request to leave their old course at whatever stage they have reached and begin their new course from scratch, so long as the student meets the normal admission requirements for the new course.
3.2
Schools may also accept students who are in or at the end of Part I, or in Part II or III, of their old course and wish to start their new course from the beginning of Part I. Schools must, though, be satisfied that the student has the necessary prerequisite knowledge to be able to perform adequately on the new course.
3.3
Students in Part II or III of their course wishing to transfer to a new course from the beginning of Parts II or III respectively must be able to
satisfy one of the criteria listed in 2.3 (of the previous section) or the school must provide a case as specified in 2.4 (of the previous section).
3.4
In choosing options, students changing course must not select modules which they have previously taken. Where the range of options stipulated by supplementary regulations is so limited as to make this impossible, the arrangements set out in 3.5 will apply.
3.5
In certain cases, supplementary regulations for a student's new course contain compulsory modules which the student has already taken. In these circumstances, the school may decide either:
(a)
that the module(s) should be
taken again, in which case the mark gained at the first attempt (that is, on the previous course) will be the one used for degree classification purposes and the higher of the two marks gained used for progression purposes, or;
(b)
that the student should be registered on agreed modules rather than repeating enrolments on compulsory modules that have been successfully completed. Where (b) applies the compulsory modules will be included in the degree classification and the additional modules will not contribute to the degree award.
3.6
(i)
A change of course
involving going back one or more stages can take place at any time in the session. Students can either choose to complete the session on their old course or suspend their registration for the rest of the session. If the session is completed, there is no need for the student to be in a position to progress in order to change course if going back one or more stages.
(ii)
Schools may not, though, accept such a student if the compulsory modules on the student's proposed new course include more than 60 credits that the student has already studied.
Students who cannot progress on their original course and wish to transfer to another course
3.7
A student who cannot progress after having one reassessment opportunity (including where the student's course has been terminated) may be allowed to change course (going back one or more stages), with the agreement of the schools involved, rather than be required to withdraw from the University. Schools may not, though, accept such a student if the compulsory modules on the student's proposed new course include
more than 60 credits that the student took on the course from which they could not progress.
3.8
Where supplementary regulations for a student's new course contain any compulsory modules which the student has already taken, the module(s) should be taken again and the higher of the two marks gained used for progression purposes. The mark gained at the first attempt (that is, on the previous course) will, though, be the one used for degree classification purposes.
Change from an undergraduate Foundation year to Honours programme
Includes:
requirements; request to transfer form; impact of student immigration status
Students on some Foundation programmes are required to choose the Honours programme they will transfer to if successful at the end of the foundation year. Where this applies, students will be advised when this choice must be made and are required to complete the ‘Request to Transfer Taught Course – Foundation Year to Honours Degree only’ form and return it to the Director of the Foundation Programme by the published deadline.
Request to transfer from a foundation taught course to an honours degree form
Failure to do so may mean a student is unable to start an honours programme in the next academic year.
The ability to transfer to a selected course may be subject to the student’s immigration status.
Change of a postgraduate taught course
Includes:
requirements; request to transfer taught course form; conditions of transfer
Where a postgraduate student on a taught course (PGT) wishes to transfer course, a change of course form (obtainable from Registry and Academic Affairs and below) should be completed by the student, obtaining written approval from the school(s) involved.
Request to transfer taught course form
Such a course transfer can only take place in the first three weeks of either the Autumn Semester or the Spring Semester. If the transfer is taking place in the Spring Semester, the school responsible for the student's new course must be satisfied that the student has the necessary prerequisite knowledge to be able to perform adequately on that course.
If either of these conditions is not met, the school will be required to make a case to Quality and Standards Committee (QSC).
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
21 May 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/personal-tutoring-student-support-and-development/role-and-responsibilities-of-senior-tutors.aspx
Header: Role and responsibilities of Senior Tutors
Intro: This page provides guidance on the role and responsibilities of a Senior Tutor. Its content is primarily directed at Senior Tutors but may also be of interest to other staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Role and responsibilities of Senior Tutors - The University of NottinghamRole and responsibilities of Senior Tutors
This page provides guidance on the role and responsibilities of a Senior Tutor. Its content is primarily directed at Senior Tutors but may also be of interest to other staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1.0 Purpose
This page provides guidance on the role and responsibilities of a Senior Tutor.
2.0 Key Principles
2.1 Role and responsibilities of Senior Tutors
Senior tutors are responsible for coordinating the following activities within their School or part thereof:
Overseeing and coordinating the operation of student support and development and the personal tutoring system in their School or unit, as well as acting as a point of reference, advice and guidance for all personal tutors in their School or unit.
Producing and annually updating guidance for personal tutors in their School or unit as a local supplement to the University Guidance for Personal Tutors, ensuring that all material is appropriately disseminated to all personal tutors within their School or unit.
Providing appropriate information and training for personal tutors to enable them to fulfil their role effectively.
Appropriate induction of new personal tutors.
Appropriate refresher training for all personal tutors must be organised biennially (resources to provide such training are developed by working together with other Senior Tutors and shared by way of the Senior Tutor Network (STN))
Assisting students in cases where the student feels unable to approach their designated personal tutor, including arranging allocation of a new personal tutor if necessary
Advising the Head of School or head of unit on the adequacy of tutor to student ratios, on any other matters relevant to the effectiveness of the School’s arrangements for personal tutoring, and on any matters related to student wellbeing and their impact upon learning
Reviewing all induction processes for new students to ensure their School or unit complies with its responsibilities in this area. The Senior Tutor needs to ensure that students are aware of the importance of participation in the personal tutoring programmes and the expectation to seek support as needed
Ensuring that school or unit handbooks for staff and students are updated regularly about personal tutoring arrangements in their school or unit and about student support and development across the University
Liaising closely with other colleagues who have responsibilities for specific aspects of support for students’ learning and development such as the School’s Disability Liaison Officer (DLO) for disability issues, the Support and Wellbeing Officers for student welfare issues, the School’s careers and employability staff links and the appropriate staff in the Student Service centres
Monitoring and enhancing the effectiveness of student support and development and the personal tutor system in their school by a range of means, likely to include:
being members of their School or unit teaching and learning committees and liaising with the specialist services;
collecting and responding to staff and student feedback (for example, through Student Staff Fora or equivalent (SSFs), or personal tutoring programme evaluations);
Annual evaluation of the personal tutoring programmes and providing a summary report to relevant people including the University Senior Tutor;
being part of extenuating circumstance panels and examination boards;
and consulting with colleagues in other Schools.
Senior Tutors must review student participation in the personal tutor programme as part of their annual evaluation of personal tutoring and feedback
Ensuring that student support, development and personal tutoring is an agenda item on all relevant school or unit committees, SSFs and education meetings
Dissemination of information from the STN to their School's personal tutors and other relevant colleagues and, if appropriate, to students
Ensuring annual updating and submission of the School or unit’s tutoring statement to the University Senior Tutor and communication of such tutoring statements to staff and students (for example, by inclusion in appropriate staff and student handbooks, including on Moodle).
Newly appointed Senior Tutors are expected to engage in training for new Senior Tutors which is organised annually, if required, by the University Senior Tutor.
2.2 Senior Tutor Network
All Senior Tutors automatically become members of the University’s Senior Tutor Network (STN), which they are expected to attend and actively participate in.
The STN meetings take place at scheduled times throughout the year and help support and inform the Senior Tutors in their role, acting as a two-directional conduit for relevant information to and from the University Executive Board (UEB). International campus Senior Tutors liaise regularly with the University Senior Tutor and have access to the STN workspace.
In addition, one member of the STN will be appointed as the University Senior Tutor and one member will be appointed Deputy University Senior Tutor.
3.0 Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures
For more information and resources, please consult the following:
Senior Tutors Network - Workspace
Senior Tutors Network - MS Teams
Senior Tutor Network Membership List (Internal only)
4.0 Version Control Table
Version Control Table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework based on content last modified on 21/06/2024
QSC
February 2025
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
24 February 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/pol-academic-misconduct.aspx
Header: Policy on academic misconduct
Intro: This page contains the University's policy on academic misconduct. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Policy on academic misconduct - The University of NottinghamPolicy on academic misconduct
This page contains the University's policy on academic misconduct. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Principles
Includes:
academic integrity; summative and formative assessments; scope; fitness to practise procedures; training and guidance; responsibilities; standard of proof extenuating circumstances; aggravating factors
1.1
The academic activities at the University of Nottingham whether scholarship, research, or innovation are based on the values of academic integrity. Academic integrity is a set of values and practices that expect us to act with honesty, trust, fairness, respect, and responsibility.
1.2
Academic misconduct is any inappropriate activity or behaviour by a student which may give that student, or another student, an unpermitted academic advantage in a summative assessment and is unacceptable within the University’s scholarly community. This includes activity or behaviour during preparation for a summative assessment even if there is no direct evidence of misconduct in the submitted assessment itself, e.g., approaching a third party for help during an examination even if there is no evidence of the material provided being used in the summative assessment. Such activities and behaviours will be considered under these regulations, and this may lead to a penalty being imposed.
A summative assessment is an assessment that counts towards an award, a transcript mark, or a progression decision. This includes postgraduate research students’ annual reviews and thesis submissions.
Formative assessment is primarily designed to give feedback on progress and inform development but do not contribute to a module mark. Instances that resemble academic misconduct in formative assessments should normally be addressed by specific and extensive feedback on the issue. This is to ensure change of behaviour and act as a preventative measure.
1.3
These regulations are to be applied to all students of the University, whether currently registered or not. Former students will be subject to the academic misconduct regulations that were in place whilst they were a registered student.
1.4
The University’s Fitness to Practise procedures may also be applied to students on programmes of study that lead to professional registration and whose actions are considered under these regulations. Findings of proven intent to commit academic misconduct (see 1.10 below) will also be referred for consideration under the relevant Fitness to Practise concerns process. For more information, please consult the following:
Fitness to practise procedures
1.5
Schools/Departments will provide advice and examples to students of what constitutes academic misconduct. They will inform students of these regulations and the possible outcomes of  academic misconduct. Students have a responsibility to undertake available training and read relevant guidance.
1.6
Students must take responsibility for the integrity of their own work, including asking for clarification.
1.7
Confirmed instances of academic misconduct and any penalty  imposed may be referred to in student references relating to a student’s academic achievement at University. For some courses, the University must notify the relevant accrediting body. For more information, please consult the following:
Fitness to practise procedures
1.8
The standard of proof is that of “the balance of probabilities”. Evidence indicating that, on the balance of probabilities, academic misconduct has occurred will be deemed sufficient for action under these regulations.
1.9
Although extenuating circumstances do not justify the occurrence of academic misconduct, such circumstances may be taken into account when determining an appropriate penalty. Students are responsible for ensuring that they inform the University of any extenuating circumstances that they consider are affecting their ability to undertake an assessment, to ensure appropriate support can be provided.
Students cannot use other procedures e.g., Extenuating Circumstances or Academic Appeals, to request an outcome that would change a penalty for academic misconduct.
1.10
It is not necessary to prove intention to commit academic misconduct to make a finding of academic misconduct. However, proven intent to commit academic misconduct is likely to be considered an aggravating factor when determining a penalty. Examples of proven intent include, but are not limited to:
False authorship or impersonation
Falsifying data
Falsifying content or evidence as part of an extenuating circumstances claim
Accessing any unauthorised websites (including Moodle) during an examination
Taking or accessing unauthorised, concealed, or pre-prepared materials into an examination and where the materials are potentially relevant to the examination.
Types of academic misconduct
Includes:
plagiarism; false authorship; collusion; misconduct in examinations and in-person assessments; fabrication or misrepresentation
2.1
The following is a non-exhaustive list of examples of academic misconduct which will be considered under these regulations:
2.1.1   Plagiarism
Plagiarism is representing work or ideas of a third party as one’s own. For example, by failing to correctly acknowledge others’ ideas and work as sources of information in a summative assessment. Plagiarism is not limited to text-based sources; it also applies to the use of graphical material, images, video/audio, calculations, etc.
Where permitted, a proof-reader may identify spelling and basic grammar errors. Inaccuracies in academic content must not be corrected nor should the structure of the piece of work be changed; doing so may result in a charge of plagiarism. A proof-reader may only be used to ensure that the work meets a quality threshold in accordance with the University’s Policy on Proofreading unless a School/Department policy specifically prohibits this. Students should make every effort to familiarise themselves with their School/Department’s policy as well as the University policy regarding proof-reading. Paraphrasing or re-ordering the words of plagiarised text to avoid Turnitin matches is plagiarism if the ideas are represented as the student’s own. Schools/Departments should ensure this information is accessible to students.
For more information about the Proofreading policy, please consult the following:
Proofreading policy
2.1.2   False Authorship
False Authorship is where a student is not the sole author of the work they have submitted as their own work. False Authorship is a form of plagiarism but is distinguished by the fact that the student has engaged with an unauthorised or unacknowledged third party and/or software tool to complete an assessment, either in part or whole.
False Authorship can be direct or through a platform or software (such as Course Hero or similar). This may include work produced by another student, an essay mill, a family member or friend, or a tutoring service (such as Chegg, or similar). The use of answers advertised or provided by tutoring services or essay mills is false authorship. As it is the authorship of work that is contested, there is no requirement to prove that the work has been purchased.
False Authorship also occurs where a student has engaged with computer-aided software to complete an assessment, in whole or part, except in cases where this has been permitted by an explicit instruction by the School and/or as part of that assessment. This engagement can be the use of Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) software (e.g., ChatGPT, Wordtune, DALL-E, chatbots and similar). The submission of work that is generated and/or improved by software that is not permitted for that assessment, for the purpose of gaining marks will be regarded as false authorship and seen as an attempt to gain an unpermitted academic advantage. For clarity this includes the over-reliance  on translation and paraphrasing software (for example Grammarly), including when it is used to conceal the original author or source material. Students should familiarise themselves with the local policies on what is, and is not permitted. If a student is unsure about what is/is not permitted for an assessment, they are responsible for confirming this with their School.
2.1.3   Collusion
Collusion is cooperation in order to gain an unpermitted advantage. This may occur where students have  collaborated on a piece of work, in part or whole, and passed it off as their own individual efforts; where one student has authorised another to use their work, in part or whole, and to submit it as their own; or when a student has stolen somebody else’s work. A colluding student does not have to gain an unpermitted advantage in their own summative assessment for academic misconduct to have occurred.
Permitted input from University tutors or approved readers or scribes is not considered to be collusion.
2.1.4   Misconduct in examinations and in-person assessments
Misconduct in examinations includes, for example, when an examination candidate:
Copies from the examination script of another candidate.
Obtains or offers any other improper assistance from or to another candidate (or any other person unless an approved reader or scribe). This includes engagement with online tutoring services/essay mills even if the student does not go on to submit the work provided as part of the summative assessment.
Allows themself to be impersonated or when any person impersonates another examination candidate. This definition is not limited to formal examinations and includes presentations, group work and other forms of summative assessment.
Has with them any unauthorised materials, including mathematical tables manuscripts or loose papers of any kind, unauthorised electronic devices (e.g., mobile telephones, smart watches) or any source of unauthorised information.
It is the student’s responsibility to ensure unauthorised items are not taken into an examination. It is not the responsibility of the invigilator to search for and remove the unauthorised items.
Where a student is found to have taken unauthorised materials or an electronic device into an exam setting or a location that can be accessed during the exam, the student is guilty of academic misconduct, irrespective of that student’s intent or the nature of the materials.
2.1.5   Fabrication or misrepresentation
Fabrication or misrepresentation is the presentation or misrepresentation of fabricated data, results, references, evidence, or other material, including, for example:
Claiming to have carried out experiments, observations, interviews, or other forms of research which a student has not, in fact, carried out;
Falsely claiming to have obtained results or other evidence;
In the case of professional qualifications, falsely claiming to have completed hours in practice or to have achieved required competencies when this is not the case;
Submitting a false Extenuating Circumstances claim where the facts of the claim and/or evidence has been fabricated/falsified. This activity will be addressed as academic misconduct even if the claim is not approved.
For more information, please consult the following:
Policy on minimum English language entry requirements
Admissions
2.1.6
Failure to disclose previous experience or qualifications that are a bar to enrolment on a module (for example, enrolment on inter-faculty language modules).
For more information, please consult the following:
Language Centre module enrolment
2.1.7
Failure to obtain ethical approval: where work is undertaken without obtaining ethical approval when there is a clear and unambiguous requirement to do so. This may be specified, for example, in module handbooks or in University research ethics policies.
2.1.8   Poor Academic Scholarship
Poor academic scholarship is conduct which breaches the standard of academic integrity expected by the University and which does not neatly fit into the definitions outlined above. Such behaviour could include; the mishandling and inappropriate use of research data and the uploading of information (including live assessment material and criteria) onto a public forum.
Recycling
3.1   Recycling (self-plagiarism)
The multiple submission by a student of their own material (either in whole or in part) is not considered academic misconduct. This includes work that the student may have submitted for a previous academic year, for another course or at a different institution. Submission of material that has been submitted on a previous occasion for a different summative assessment is, however, unlikely to be academically appropriate. The merit of such material will therefore be a matter of academic judgement.
Declaration of Falsified and/or Counterfeit Qualification
4.1   Declaration of Falsified and/or Counterfeit Qualification
Declaration of falsified and/or counterfeit qualification is where a student has declared a  qualification which has later been found to be counterfeit or fraudulently gained and affects the student’s suitability to study for their qualification at the University.  Such behaviour may be found during the process of investigating an allegation of academic misconduct.  If this is the case the student may be refered to to the University Disciplinary procedure:
For more information about the University Disciplinary procedure, please consult the following:
University Disciplinary procedure
Related links and documentation
Includes:
Code of ethical research conduct and research ethics; Policy on communications with third parties; Unacceptable behaviour policy; further guidance about procedures and exam conditions
For more information about related codes and policies, please consult the following:
Code of Research Conduct and Research Ethics
Code of Practice on Handling Allegations of Research Misconduct
Student Services - Policy on Communications with Third Parties
Student Services - Unacceptable behaviour policy
Further guidance about procedures and exam conditions
For more information about the academic misconduct procedure and exam conditions, please consult the following:
Student Services - Academic misconduct procedure
Student Services - In-person examinations
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please email:
academic-misconduct@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
27 February 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-responsibilities-of-supervisor.aspx
Header: Responsibilities of the supervisor
Intro: This page contains detailed information about the role and responsibilities of a postgraduate supervisor, including research planning and thesis requirements. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Responsibilities of the supervisor - The University of NottinghamResponsibilities of the supervisor
This page contains detailed information about the role and responsibilities of a postgraduate supervisor, including research planning and thesis requirements. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Please be aware that due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, some of the content on this page has been amended as part of the University's mitigation efforts. Where this applies, it will be clearly indicated within each section below.
Note:
In addition to the responsibilities detailed in this section, Postgraduate Student Advisors should also see the additional Covid-19 related responsibilities for Heads of Schools, PGR Directors and Supervisors for 2020-21. For more information, please consult the following:
Responsibilities of the Head of School, Supervisor and Director of PGR Programme - Additional guidance for the 2020-21 academic year in response to Covid-19
1. Policy
Supervisors will provide guidance and assistance to PGRs so that they may carry out their research and present their results to the best advantage.
Every supervisor and every PGR will be provided with guidance on their respective roles and responsibilities.
2. Role of the supervisor
The general role of supervisors is to guide and assist PGRs until submission of their thesis and any subsequent period of corrections, until such a point that examiners have reached a final decision on the award of the degree. The roles of supervisor and examiner are quite distinct, and it is not one of the roles of the supervisor to assess the thesis.
The specific roles of supervisors may differ depending on the academic discipline, Departmental practice and whether the member of staff is acting as lead, second, assistant, temporary or permanent supervisor. The lead supervisor (or delegate) will also consider requests for annual leave in line with School/Departmental policy.
3. Role of the assistant supervisor
Many postdoctoral research staff, level 4 Research Officers and research technicians make valuable contributions towards the supervision of the University’s PGRs.
The formal appointment of such staff as assistant supervisors as part of a supervisory team is intended to recognise and acknowledge this contribution and to identify the roles and responsibilities of assistant supervisors in order that this is clear to the candidate and all members of the supervisory team.
Assistant supervisors are responsible for:
providing regular support and advice to PGRs. This may include guidance on welfare matters and health and safety.
providing guidance on how to use equipment or specific research techniques and methods.
helping PGRs to resolve difficulties they encounter and/or direct them to others who can assist.
providing PGRs with informal feedback on their written work and/or presentations.
where applicable, contributing to the reporting of progress of PGRs, noting that the level of involvement with this will be agreed, in advance, with the lead and co-supervisor(s).
encouraging PGRs to disseminate their research.
engaging with professional development opportunities to develop their supervisory practice including any mandatory training requirements.
ensuring they are familiar with policies and processes applicable to research degrees.
4. Continuing professional development
All supervisors must undertake continuing professional development, so that their work as a supervisor is supported.
Supervisors should take the initiative in updating their knowledge and skills by participating in a range of appropriate activities and sharing good practice.
More information on support for research supervisors can be found here:
Researcher Academy
5. Documentation check
Includes:
responsibilities
At the outset the supervisor should check that the candidate has received information sent by the University concerning registration and that they have registered for that session.
Before or at initial registration or, at the latest within 4 weeks of initial registration, supervisors should check that all their PGRs have received copies of essential documentation relevant to their research studies or have been informed about where to locate them on the web. As a minimum, this should include: information about registration and services, the School Handbook, and any relevant safety advice.
For more information about registration, please consult the following:
Student Services - registration
6. Research plan
Includes:
assistance; designing a programme of research; for full-time doctoral students
Supervisors will assist their PGRs to plan their research studies, including helping them to define their research topic; to identify schemes and specific tasks; to identify the relevant research literature, databases and other relevant sources, and to be aware of the standards in the discipline.
The supervisor and candidate should design a programme of research in which (subject to research progress and taking into account special cases) all or much of the thesis will have been written up by the candidate by the end of their period of registered study. The design of the programme of research should not at the outset plan to include any period of thesis pending that the candidate is entitled to.
For full-time doctoral candidates on a 3 year programme, it is expected that the completion of the entire doctoral examination process is completed within 4 years. The PGR may need to register for some taught modules or attend research training courses. The supervisor will advise them how to do this.
Note:
Where the PGR's research has been impacted as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the supervisor should help the PGR to adjust their plan and research design and advise them on how the impacts may be mitigated.
7. Advising on regulations
Includes:
understanding and knowledge; responsibilities
Supervisors should have a reasonable knowledge and understanding of the University's regulations governing research study and the University, Faculty and Departmental procedures governing research study and supervision.
They are required to advise their PGRs on these regulations and procedures or, if they feel a question is outside their knowledge, to direct their PGR to other sources such as Student Services (or Central Administration at UNM and the Graduate School at UNNC).
Supervisors also have a responsibility to ensure that other members of the supervisory team are kept informed of the candidate’s progress, and any issues which may be having an impact on their programme.
8. Advising on services and facilities
Includes:
responsibilities; review of PGR needs
Supervisors should have a reasonable knowledge of and be able to advise their PGRs on the availability of the University's academic services and facilities (for example library and computing facilities) and how to make use of them.
The supervisors in conjunction with the PGR should keep under review the facilities which are required in order to carry out the research and make these needs known to the Head of School.
9. Minimum number of supervisions
Includes:
responsibility to provide appropriate and regular supervision; requirements for part-time PGRs
Supervisors are responsible for providing appropriate and regular supervision for their PGRs until submission of their thesis and any subsequent period of corrections, until such a point that examiners have reached a final decision on the award of the degree. They are also responsible for being accessible at mutually convenient times to listen and offer advice.
Students and supervisors are jointly responsible for arranging the supervision meetings.
Supervisors must provide their part-time candidates with a minimum of 6 recorded supervisions a year and their full-time candidates with a minimum of 12 recorded supervisions a year.
These supervisory meetings must be at least monthly for full time candidates and two-monthly for part time candidates. This is based on calendar months. Note, it is expected that in many cases the actual number of meetings between supervisors and candidates may exceed these minima.
If it is not possible for a meeting to take place as scheduled, the meeting should be re-arranged for the next available opportunity.
If no meetings are possible in any given month (or two months for part time students), the supervisor is responsible to ensure that the reason for the missed meeting is recorded appropriately. These reports should be regularly monitored by the School. University staff will review the missed meeting reports on a case by case basis, particularly for PGRs are at risk of breaching visa and immigration requirements, to see if any additional support is required. These requirements may also be modified under the rules for supervising students working off-site.
For students who are missing meetings, or who are not meeting the meeting minima requirements, the regulations governing attendance and engagement should be reviewed:
UNUK regulations governing attendance and engagement
UNNC and UNM
regulations governing attendance and engagement
10. Format for supervisions
Includes:
definition; purpose
A 'supervision meeting' is considered to be a any simultaneous contact between the supervisor(s) and PGR candidate for an academic purpose. It is important that at the supervision meetings the PGR’s progress to date and/or the future direction of their research or thesis writing is discussed. It is also necessary that these discussions must be summarised in writing so that they are available if required, for example for audit purposes, or to aid student wellbeing or support. These written reports must meet the minimum number requirements as detailed earlier.
There is no specified format for these meetings.  For example, a daily chat at the lab bench and/or a pre-scheduled sit down meeting would meet these criteria, as long as a monthly report with a progress overview is still submitted. Group meetings of PGRs and/or seminars would be acceptable as long as the PGR’s progress to date and/or the future direction of their research or thesis writing is discussed.
A supervision meeting should typically take place as a face-to-face meeting, but can also include meetings conducted online, such as on Microsoft Teams. The exception to this is where the PGR is in the UK on a student visa, unless the student has been given formal permission to study at a different location, supervision meetings must be face-to-face and on campus.
11. Supervision record
Includes:
reporting needs; annual review of PGRs
In order that proper audit of supervision provision can be carried out, so that supervisors may undertake continuous monitoring of their PGR’s progress, and records of this progress monitoring are available for formal Progression Review, supervisors are required to ensure the maintenance of a supervision record of at least the minimum number and frequency of supervision meetings a year (see Section 9 above).
Supervisors should advise their PGRs on the procedures for monitoring their progress which are described in the section of this Quality Manual entitled Progression Review of research students.
These include:
(i)
Supervision Records - attendance at supervision sessions and completion of supervision records;
(ii)
Progression Review - formal review of progress towards meeting the required outcomes, and assessment of whether the outcomes will be met in the required time. Completion of the Progression Review forms.
(iii)
MPhil and doctoral registration - procedures for upgrading or downgrading candidates and for confirming MPhil or doctoral registration.
Supervisors may, from time to time, be required to provide reports on their PGR’s progress for other purposes and to other agencies, for example, the Research Councils and other sponsors. Such reports should be provided within the required deadline to ensure, in particular, that the continuation of candidate’s funding by outside agencies is not compromised.
For more information about the Progression Review of research students, please consult the following:
Progression Review of research students
12. Training needs
Includes:
discussing personal, academic, and professional skills; PGR training programme; research ethics; Code of research conduct and research ethics
The supervisor should discuss with the PGR what personal, academic, and professional skills training they require in order to complete their research degree and to provide a skills base for a future career.
The supervisor should agree with the candidate a research training programme which is compatible with the PGR's needs and which is achievable in relation to the research commitments within the limits of their registered period of study, making it clear where attendance at training courses is compulsory or voluntary. This programme should be reviewed each year.
The supervisors should take reasonable steps to ensure that the PGR’s training needs are met. Normally such training will be delivered within the University and the supervisor should, therefore, be aware of any research training offered through the Researcher Academy, the Doctoral Training Centre/Programme, the Faculty and the School.
The supervisor should also ensure that the PGR receives adequate training in research ethics and is given assistance in applying for ethical approval if appropriate.
For more information, please consult the following:
Code of research conduct and research ethics
Researcher Academy
13. Safety
Includes:
correct procedures; seeking advice
The supervisor(s) should be aware of and advise the PGR of the correct safety procedures pertaining to their research and, if in doubt, should seek advice from the Head of School, School Safety Officer, University Safety Office or University of Malaysia (UNM)/University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC) Safety Committee as appropriate.
14. Meetings, conferences and publication
The supervisor(s) should encourage and facilitate the PGR to engage with relevant academics who will support their doctoral research and future career development.
This could be through encouraging attendance at seminars, meetings and conferences; introducing them to relevant individuals and professional networks; and encouraging them to publish the results of their research.
Where appropriate supervisors should also support the PGRs to participate in public and policy engagement activities or undertake placements and internships that will enable them to develop their broader research experiences.
15. Written work
The supervisor should request written work as appropriate, and read and provide constructive criticism on it within a reasonable time.
16. Supervision during thesis pending period
Includes:
minimum number of meetings; the role of proofreaders
During the thesis pending period and any period of corrections or thesis re-submission, supervisors and PGRs should continue to meet regularly (as described above).
Supervisors will also read and comment on one draft of the candidate’s thesis prior to each submission (as appropriate) when submitted within the required timeframes for feedback to be given.
The Role of Proofreaders
A proofreader may only ensure that the meaning of the author is not misrepresented due to the quality and standard of the English used. This can include correcting spelling and basic grammar errors.
Inaccuracies in academic content should not be corrected nor should the structure of the piece of work be changed; doing so may result in a charge of plagiarism.
17. Thesis presentation
Supervisors should advise candidate’s on the timing, construction and form of presentation of their thesis and should check that they receive a copy of the University's guidance on presenting a thesis, from Student Services or Central Administration at UNM or Graduate School at UNNC.
18. Examination of thesis
The supervisor is responsible for advising the Internal Examiner whether the electronic version of the thesis can be shared with the External Examiner.
19. Submission of data
Supervisors should ensure that, in circumstances where it is appropriate to the discipline, the PGR is aware of the requirement to submit all data collected during the period of study as a PGR of this University, to their School prior to arrangement of the viva voce examination.
Additional information
Includes:
PGR supervision record; Research supervisor resources
For each of these sessions a Supervision Record must be completed.
PGR supervision record
PGR supervision record
Research supervisor resources
Students studying in outside organisations
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
10 July 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/thesis-pend-period.aspx
Header: The Thesis-pending period (including policy on extension)
Intro: This page sets out the eligibility of a thesis pending period for research degree students, as well as entitlements and extensions. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
The Thesis-pending period (including policy on extension) - The University of NottinghamThe Thesis-pending period (including policy on extension)
This page sets out the eligibility of a thesis pending period for research degree students, as well as entitlements and extensions. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Please be aware that during academic year 2019/20, the University introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. These were campus specific and meant to be read in conjunction with all pre-existing content.
From the beginning of academic year 2021/22, the active application of the exceptional regulations affecting this page has now ceased, with the sole exception of those which cover extenuating circumstances at the University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM). The following will remain active at UNM until further notice in light of the current situation in Malaysia:
Covid-19 EC Exceptional Regulations - UNM
Any outcomes from the application of the regulations during academic years 2019/20 and 2020/21 across all three campuses will, however, continue to be honoured and used in all decisions regarding those affected.
Further details about those regulations which have NOT been extended into academic year 2021/22 can be found in the "Exceptional regulations applied in response to Covid-19" section below.
Please be aware that due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, some of the content on this page has also been amended as part of the University's mitigation efforts. Where this applies, it will be clearly indicated within each section below.
1. Scope of policy
This policy only applies to students on doctoral level and Master of Philosophy degrees who are eligible for a Thesis-pending period.
Students on 1 year research degrees (for example, Master of Research) do not have a Thesis-pending period.
2. Entitlements in the Thesis-pending period
Includes:
facilities; meetings with supervisors
Students who have completed their research and the period of registered study as required by regulations may enter the Thesis-pending period.
In this period of 12 months (for students who were registered full-time) or 24 months (for students who were registered part-time) or less, the student will be entitled to the use of library facilities and University computing facilities but not to facilities for research.
The PGR and supervisors should continue to meet regularly, in line with supervisor meeting requirements.
PGR Responsibilities of the supervisor
For avoidance of doubt, supervisory meetings should continue throughout the Thesis-pending period to support the PGR student to reach the point of final thesis submission in a timely way and minimise any extensions to registration.
Supervisors will read and comment on one draft of the candidate’s thesis prior to (each) submission.
3. Procedure for applying for an extension to the Thesis-pending period
Includes:
plan requirements; exceptional circumstances; MRes, MSc and MA by research degrees; student fees and finance
All applications should be submitted with supporting evidence to Student Services or equivalent for consideration on behalf of Quality and Standards Committee (QSC). The aim will be to notify the PGR of the outcome of their application within 2 weeks.
Application for extension to the thesis pending period
Application for extension to the thesis pending period
Application for extension to the thesis pending period
Other than in exceptional circumstances applications will only be considered if received by Student Services no less than 3 months in advance of the end of the thesis-pending period.
All applications require the support of the principal supervisor and Head of School.
All applications should include a plan detailing:
Which thesis chapters are complete
What work remains to be done on incomplete chapters
A time line for the completion of outstanding work and a date for submission of the completed thesis.
Requests for extensions will only be considered as a result of circumstances affecting the thesis pending period, and not the period of registered study.
Students on MRes, MSc and MA by Research degrees are not entitled to a Thesis-pending period, but nonetheless must use this procedure if they need to apply for an extension to their submission deadline.
If an extension request is granted, the fee listed in the University's Fees Schedule will be payable. For more information, please consult the following:
Student fees and finance
4. Procedure for applying for an extension to a resubmission or period of time allowed for minor corrections
Students who have already completed their examination and have further corrections or a re-submission to undertake should also use the procedure outlined in section 3 above to apply for extra time.
5. Reasons for extensions
Includes:
circumstances that would not normally warrant an extension to Thesis-pending period
The following have been agreed by the University as circumstances that would normally result in an extension being granted and those which would normally not.
Examples of circumstances which would normally lead to the approval of an extension to the Thesis-pending period:
Exceptional personal circumstances (e.g. illness, hospitalisation, accident) if having a significant impact on the writing-up process
Maternity
Paternity
Death of close relative, or illness of close relative where student is the carer
Illness or death of partner
Prolonged jury service
Expeditions for sport of national significance (providing the extension is acceptable to the funding body)
Requirement for a student to undertake military service
Examples of circumstances which would not normally warrant an extension to the Thesis-pending period:
Paid employment during the Thesis-pending period, noting any information provided regarding the financial circumstances of the PGR.
Voluntary service
Note:
The Covid-19 exceptional regulations detail specific Covid-19 related impacts that will also be considered in cases for extensions to Thesis-pending period.
Exceptional regulations applied in response to Covid-19
Actively applied in 2019/20 and 2020/21
Covid-19 EC Exceptional Regulations - UNUK
Covid-19 EC Exceptional Regulations - UNNC
Covid-19 PGR extensions to period of registered study Exceptional Regulations - UNUK
Noted differences in 2020/21
During academic year 2019/20, the University of Nottingham also introduced exceptional regulations in relation to postgraduate research extensions (including for UKRI-funded programmes, as well as the Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) and MPhil awards).
Outcomes from the application of those regulations during the 2019/20 academic year, in relation to PGR extensions, will be honoured, and used in all future decision making.
However, from academic year 2020/21 onwards, the Covid-19 PGR Extensions (UKRI funded) Exceptional Regulations and Covid-19 Exceptional Regulations for PGR Students will no longer be actively applied to a student's period of study.
Actively applied in 2019/20 only
Please be aware that the following Exceptional Regulations were developed and applied in academic year 2019/20 due to the coronavirus pandemic. These records should be read in conjunction with all other content on this page. For more information, please consult the following:
Covid-19 PGR Extensions (UKRI funded) Exceptional Regulations - UNUK
Covid-19 Exceptional Regulations for PGR Students - UNUK
Covid-19 Exceptional Regulations for PGR Students - UNNC
Covid-19 Exceptional Regulations for PGR Students - UNM
For more information about the 2019/20 Exceptional Regulations as a whole, please consult the following:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - 2019/20 to 2020/21
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
18 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/prog-and-mod-design-and-approval/mod-spec-guidance.aspx
Header: Module specification guidance
Intro: This page sets out the regulations on how to complete module specifications. This information is primarily directed at staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses, but may also be of interest to students.
Content:
Module specification guidance - The University of NottinghamModule specification guidance
This page sets out the regulations on how to complete module specifications. This information is primarily directed at staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses, but may also be of interest to students.1.0 Purpose
This page is to help staff who are designing new modules as well as those who are updating existing module specifications.  It provides the regulations about how to complete module specifications. Module specification content is published to both applicants and current students in the Online Curriculum catalogue.
2.0 Key principles
The University has endorsed seven principles for good curriculum design. Schools are asked to review the principles in the Curriculum design document as they design programmes.
New Programme Design Principles
2.1 Module details
2.1.1 Title of module
Titles cannot share the same name as another module. They must be short, accurately reflect the subject material contained in the syllabus, and be engaging. In cases where multiple versions of the same module exist, titles must be distinguished using brackets. For example ‘Accessing America (20 credits)’
2.1.2 Level
Module levels are typically aligned with the corresponding stage of a student’s degree.
There are five different levels of modules:
Level 0 – Foundation year modules have a preparatory function providing a grounding in the subject, for example, when a student lacks the relevant A-level.
Level 1 – Primarily for first year (Qualifying stage) students developing basic knowledge and introducing fundamental concepts and techniques. Any pre-requisites will normally be expressed in terms of relevant pre-University studies.
Level 2 – Primarily for second year students (Part I stage), focusing on the next phase of a student's development, possibly with pre-requisites based on Level 1 which may cover more advanced concepts and introduce different study skills.
Level 3 – Primarily for third year students (Part II), building on previous studies with specified pre-requisites. A wide range of study skills may be employed and developed, often with an emphasis on student-centred and student-initiated learning.
Level 4 – Primarily for fourth year students (Part III stage)  or those with a first degree offering extended or advanced study with pre-requisites from lower-level modules.
2.1.3 Session
Specify the academic year in which the new module will first run.
2.1.4 Summary of content
Present information in a concise, informative and comprehensible style, such as starting a sentence like "This module considers..." followed by bullet points of major topics.
2.1.5 Content Note
Use ‘Content note’ to highlight potentially challenging material for student awareness.
Please consult the following guidance for mote information about Content Notes:
Content Notes Guidance
2.2 Number of credits
Specify the number of credits.  A single credit is notionally intended to represent 10 hours of student input, whether in the form of teaching contact or private study. Credits indicate a quantity of assessed learning and are gained by satisfying the Board of Examiners.
The notional equivalent hours of study may not be directly applicable to University of Nottingham apprenticeship programmes where work-based learners have additional contextual opportunities to embed and test learning. Programme approval processes will ensure teaching approaches meet required outcomes for the learners on apprenticeships.
If, exceptionally, the assessment of a postgraduate module is not carried out by the end of the semester in which the module is offered, the credits will not in theory accrue to the student until assessment is completed in the following semester.
All new modules must have a credit value of 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 or 60 credits. For the MRes only, larger credit sizes of 80, 100, 120, 140 or 160 are permitted.  Regulations around limits on the total number of modules of particular sizes must be applied when designing new modules.
Any modules sizes outside of this range (including zero credit modules) or outside of the combination of modules permitted under the programme specification regulations are only permitted in exceptional circumstances (for instance where there is a PSRB requirement), and such modules require QSC approval.  Schools requiring this must submit a QSC exceptional case request via the Curriculum Approvals and Advisory Team.
2.3 Availability to Students
2.3.1 Availability to exchange/subsidiary/first year students
Indicate whether the module is available to exchange students, subsidiary and first year students and state if there are any restrictions, for example only students of a particular discipline or programme.
2.3.2 Availability to postgraduate students
Indicate whether or not an undergraduate module can be taken by postgraduate students.
2.4 Student numbers
Specify the number of students expected to enrol on the module in the following academic session.
If there is a cap, please indicate this and provide a rationale for the cap (see below).
2.4.1 Rationale for Cap
Clearly explain the justification for imposing a limit on the numbers of students on the module
2.5 Semester in which module is taught
Modules can be offered in the Autumn Semester, Spring Semester or as a "Full Year" (year long). A module can be offered in more than one of these periods, but one of them must be indicated as the default.
Postgraduate (PG) modules can also be offered in the summer.
Postgraduate dissertation/project (60 credit) modules are usually only offered as summer modules due to programme level restrictions on number of credits studied per term/semester.
Schools with a presence in the UK and on international campuses must obtain the endorsement in good time from all relevant campuses before making any significant changes to modules (or programmes), which is particularly pertinent for 'mirror' programmes.
2.6 Session availability
Specify whether the module will be taught every session or, for example, only in specific years (e.g. every other year effective from 2012).
2.7 Requisites for the module
Requisites should only be used where necessary to support student learning.
Pre-requisites for admission to the module (if any)
Identify any conditions students must meet to enrol on the module such as passing specific modules or being registered on a particular programme
Note that only certain requisites can be programmed in Campus Solutions; requirements such as ‘must have an A Level in…’ can only be entered as text for information and will not prevent system enrolment and must be checked by the School prior to commencement of the module.
Co-requisites for the module (if any)
Indicate any combinations of modules that students must take together. For example ‘students must take PHYS2022 and PHYS2023’.
Anti-requisites (if any)
Indicate any combinations of modules that students cannot take together e.g. ‘students cannot take BUSI3010 if they have previously studied BUSI2020’.
Remember when adding pre-, co- and anti-requisites to a module, they will apply to all students and will prevent those students who do not meet the criteria from studying the module.
2.8 Administration details, (School(s) offering the module and percentage split)
Clearly state the School offering the module and any contributing Schools, along with the percentage split.
Ensure that the split accurately reflects the proportion of the module taught by each School, as these figures are used to calculate student load.
2.9 List which Schools and Faculties have been consulted (and support the proposal)
List the Schools and Faculties consulted during the proposal, including information on their support for their proposal.
Please note: Submission of the module confirms that adequate consultation over resources has taken place with the library, and any other relevant resource provider (for example, DTS) and confirms that appropriate consideration of this proposal has been undertaken at School level.
2.10 Aims
Provide a general statement explaining the purpose of the module, its benifits for students and its role in the broader subject context. It is expected that these will vary among the different modules contributing towards the same programme. Specify the knowledge and subject-specific skills which students are expected to aquire on completion of the module – for example, the aim of a module might be to teach computer-aided design skills, which would be different from the aim of a programme which might be to teach general IT skills.
If the module is accredited, or will be accredited, include details about the accrediting body.
2.11 Target students
This is a free text field in the module specification which musts be used to provide a clear indication to students about who can/cannot take the module and if there are any restrictions, for example:
Only available to Year 1 Undergraduate students on xxx degree programme. Not available to Exchange students.
Information in this section will not prevent a student enrolling on a module and must be checked by the school prior to commencement of the module
2.12 Assessment period
The Assessment Period indicates when formal assessment of the module concludes. It will typically align with the semester, but may vary in exceptional cases – for example, an autumn module may have a formal examination in the spring and therefore an Assessment Period of "Assessed by the end of Spring Semester."
Year-long modules which have summative assessment at the end of the academic year must also include a formative or summative assessment at the end of the Autumn Semester. For avoidance of doubt, the autumn assessment does not have to be the same format at the spring assessment. For example, summative 10% in autumn with summative 90% in spring; or formative (can be different format) in autumn with summative 100% in spring; or summative 60% autumn and summative 40% spring.
2.13 Measures to protect mobility
Where schools allow mobility for one semester of a year-long module, a new module for one/both semester(s) (as applicable) will need to be created to enable this.
2.14 Other module details
Includes:
module web links; learning outcomes; knowledge, skills and behaviours; module activities
2.14.1 Module web links
This section is being removed from the form, so if it is still present when a new module is created, this section can be left blank..
2.14.2 Learning outcomes
It is reasonable to have  up to six learning outcomes for a module, with some variability depending on the credit value of the module (typically with less learning outcomes for smaller credit sizes). Some cases, may warrant additional learning outcomes, for example due to Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies (PSRB) requirements etc.
Module learning outcomes may be specific to the module, the programme, or a combination of module and programme learning outcomes.
It is advisable to minimise the reoccurrence of the same learning outcome across multiple modules. This minimises the number of learning outcomes in each module and avoids assessing the same learning outcomes multiple times.
Levels of assessment required to meet learning outcomes will be checked through the approval of the curriculum map.
Where learning outcomes for the module contribute to programme level learning outcomes these must be identified on the relevant programme’s curriculum map.
For further information please see the following:
Programme Specification information
2.14.3 Knowledge, Skills and Behaviours (KSBs) - for Apprentice programmes only
Complete this section for modules in an apprentice programme, consulting with the Professional and Workbased Learning team.
2.14.4 Module activities
Provide details about how the module will be delivered (e.g. lectures, seminars, workshops, laboratory sessions, supervision, field trips etc), including information about any teaching which is not face to face.  For example “you will be taught in a variety of ways which may include lectures and seminars”.
Please keep this section general and appropriate for applicants to read (more information, if needed, can be provided for current students in the module handbook).
Where the module in question is the dissertation, please indicate the minimum supervision arrangements. If appropriate, you would need to include a description of a range of different teaching methods..
2.15 Module convenor
Includes:
module contact at the international campus
Ensure that a named member of University staff is available for all module related queries. This individual, typically a permanent member of staff, must be easily accessible to students.
In cases, where a module is delivered in both the UK and on an international campus, appoint a module contact at the international campus who will:
Facilitate communication with the UK-based module convenor
Have delegated responsibility for the modules delivery at the international campus
Be the primary contact  for students at the international campus.
Please note that postgraduate students cannot be module convenors.
2.16 Assessment details
You must describe each assessment element in detail, particularly the duration of examinations and the word-length of any essay, project or dissertation and if any element is non-compensable. A non-compensable module element is one which must be passed at the relevant level (40% for Honours degrees, 50% for masters' degrees, PG certificates and PG diplomas).
Examinations, whether remote or in person, must be either 1, 2 or 3 hours in duration or, for 'take home' exams, these could also be 24 hours in duration. These durations are required (unless there is a specific reason for another duration, e.g. PSRB requirement)
A student does have the opportunity to resit the module element for progression purposes (unless they are in their final year of study as an undergraduate), but they must achieve over the minimum level in one of their attempts to be awarded the credits associated with that module. The contribution of each assessment element to the overall module mark must be clearly specified (for example, one 1-hour examination (50%); one 1,500 word essay (50%)).
In addition:
Assessment practices are expected to be informed by reflection, consideration of professional practice, as well as subject-specific and educational scholarship.
The volume, timing and nature of assessment enable students to demonstrate the extent to which they have achieved the intended learning outcomes.
Where a 20-credit module is created from two 10-credit modules, the volume of assessment of the new module must be significantly less than the aggregate assessment of the two former modules.
The assessment for a module must only be the minimum necessary to test its learning outcomes, whilst still complying with the aforementioned exam duration limitations where the assessments are exams.
Where it is felt necessary to have more than one component of assessment to cover all the learning outcomes, assessing any given learning outcome more than once is expected to be avoided.
There must not be more than one timetabled examination for a module, except where it is necessary to have both a written and a practical examination.
Please note that either/or assessment options are not permitted where the assessment type and/or element weightings are different.
It is an established principle of the University, that when registered for a University of Nottingham qualification all teaching and assessment must be in English. The only exception is where the subject of study is a language or literature other than English.
Where a student must repeat their enrolment in order to be reassessed in a specific module this must be stated in the module specification.
The form of reassessment of the module will be the same as the original assessment, unless stated to the contrary in this section. If the reassessment is different, it must consist of either a single examination or a single coursework assessment that replaces all the failed assessment components of the module for reassessment purposes. Where the different reassessment is an examination, then as above it must be either 1, 2 or 3 hours in duration or, for 'take home' exams, these could also be 24 hours in duration. These durations are required (unless there is a specific reason for another duration, e.g. PSRB requirement)
2.17 Flexible and inclusive assessment
There are many ways of making assessments more inclusive to recognise individual students’ challenges and situations. One approach is to introduce an element of flexibility. If there is more than one way of meeting the learning outcomes, students can be given a degree of choice over how they do this, noting bullet 7 in section 2.16 above (i.e. that either/or assessment options are not permitted where the assessment type and/ or element weightings are different). The choice can be constrained appropriately by the options offered and managed by schools locally.
The details of any flexibility available must be clearly stated in the guidance given to all students about the assessment. It is also recommended that a record of the student’s choice regarding the version of an assessment that a student selected is kept at least until 2 months after the relevant exam board. If the student’s choice is obvious by the format or nature of the submission via Moodle, then simply retaining the submission box on Moodle would satisfy this recommendation.
For more information about setting inclusive or flexible assessment please
see these examples
2.18 Higher Education Classification of Subjects (HeCOS) Codes
The University's Planning, Performance and Strategic Change Division (PPSC) compiles an annual student data return for the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA). As part of this process, HeCOS, or 'subject' data codes for all modules taken by our students must be provided. This data is used to:
identify 'strategically important and vulnerable subjects' which may lead to additional funding for certain subjects
define the particularly sensitive subjects that international students and researchers must apply for an Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) certificate
decide on the subject grouping it is published in within performance metrics, such as the OfS student outcomes dashboard as well as publications such as league tables.
A HECoS code that is too vague or not reflective of a course content and relation to a broader subject group has the potential to have a profound impact.  Please consult the following for more information about HECoS codes:
Higher Education Classification of Subjects (HECoS) codes
3.0 Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures
For more information about the University of Nottingham Qualification Framework, please see:
University of Nottingham Qualification Framework
For Programme specifcation guidance, please see the following:
Programme specification guidance
For more information about intercampus programme types, please see:
University of Nottingham Qualification Framework
For information about Degree apprenticeships, please consult the following SharePoint
Degree apprenticeships
For queries about the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) return,  please contact PPSC:
Planning, performance and strategic change
For more information about setting inclusive or flexible assessment, please see these examples:
Inclusive or flexible assessment examples
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please email:
ss-curriculumadvice@nottingham.ac.uk
4.0 Version control table
Version control table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Clarifications made as part of a review of this section of the Quality Manual.  Also reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework
QSC
August 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please email:
ss-curriculumadvice@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
20 September 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-responsibilities-of-pgr-advisor.aspx
Header: Responsibilities of the Postgraduate Student Advisor
Intro: This page explains the role and responsibilities of the School Postgraduate Student Advisor (SPSA), including the appointment procedure and recording of consultations. Its content is primarily directed at UK-based staff and students but may also be of interest to those at the international campuses.
Content:
Responsibilities of the Postgraduate Student Advisor - The University of NottinghamResponsibilities of the Postgraduate Student Advisor
This page explains the role and responsibilities of the School Postgraduate Student Advisor (SPSA), including the appointment procedure and recording of consultations. Its content is primarily directed at UK-based staff and students but may also be of interest to those at the international campuses.Please be aware that during academic year 2020/21, the University introduced additional guidance in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. This page was previously affected by these arrangements and has been documented accordingly.
Further details can be found in the "Additional guidance in 2020/21 due to Covid-19" section below.
1. Policy
Includes:
numbers required
Every School shall have at least one full-time member of academic staff designated to act as an independent School Postgraduate Student Adviser (SPSA) to advise research students and to deal confidentially with any concern raised by research students about their research studies and supervision.
2.  Appointment procedure
Includes:
responsibilities
Heads of School shall nominate a School Postgraduate Student Advisor (SPSA) and shall inform the University of the name of the SPSA, which should also be included in the School Handbook.
3.  Role of the School Postgraduate Student Advisor
Includes:
confidentiality; when also a student supervisor; additional services and support
The SPSA shall have responsibility for providing support, as noted in section 1 above, to all Research Postgraduate students registered with their home school. Responsibility for PGRs does not extend to the corresponding school on an international campus, although cross campus cooperation between SPSAs is encouraged on common areas.
The School Postgraduate Student Advisor (SPSA) is available to offer independent and strictly confidential advice and support to research students who, for example, have a query about University, Faculty and School regulations and procedures relating to research study; are concerned about the progress of their research work and the facilities or resources available to them; are having difficulties with the supervisory relationship (including a complete breakdown of that relationship); or who have any other query relating to their research studies at Nottingham.
If the SPSA is the student's supervisor, the student should seek guidance from any other member of School academic staff.
The SPSA should advise the student as is required and, if they cannot answer the student's query, should indicate to the student what sources of expert advice and support exist within the University (eg. Counselling Service, or Researcher Academy). For more information about these services, please consult the following:
Researcher Academy
The University Counselling Services
4. Record of consultations
Includes:
expectations; confidentiality; reporting options
When a research student requests a meeting with the School Postgraduate Student Advisor (SPSA) on a serious matter concerning their research studies and/or supervision, the SPSA should make a careful record of the problem and the discussions (the record should be agreed with the student), including the outcome and any proposed course of action.
Where appropriate, the SPSA may offer to mediate between the student and other staff and students in the School, including the supervisor. Subject to the degree of confidentiality agreed with the student, the SPSA should report the problem to the Head of School and, if appropriate, Registry and Academic Affairs.
Additional guidance in 2020/21 due to Covid-19
Please be aware that the following guidance was developed and applied during academic year 2020/21 in response to the coronavirus pandemic. These additional responsibilities were specific to Heads of School, Supervisors and Directors of PGR Programmes and should be read in conjunction with all other content on this page:
Responsibilities of the Head of School, Supervisor and Director of PGR Programme - Additional guidance for the 2020-21 academic year in response to Covid-19
This guidance appeared alongside the University's Exceptional Regulations that were developed and applied in response to the coronavirus pandemic.
For more information about the Exceptional Regulations as a whole, please consult the following:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - 2019/20 - 2020/21
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
25 April 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/academic-regulations/reg-collection-and-use-of-set.aspx
Header: Regulations for the collection and use of Student Evaluation of Teaching surveys
Intro: This page contains the University's regulations for the collection, use and publication of Student Evaluation of Teaching (SET) surveys. Its content applies to staff at the China campus only.
Content:
Regulations for the collection and use of Student Evaluation of Teaching surveys - The University of NottinghamRegulations for the collection and use of Student Evaluation of Teaching surveys
This page contains the University's regulations for the collection, use and publication of Student Evaluation of Teaching (SET) surveys. Its content applies to staff at the China campus only.Evaluation of teaching processes are currently under review. Whilst work is ongoing to develop an alternative approach, Student Evaluation of Teaching (SET) surveys no longer take place for staff on the UK or UNM campuses. There is no requirement to include historic SET data in promotion cases; revised guidance can be found on the HR promotions website.
1. Frequency of collection of Student Evaluation of Teaching (SET) surveys
Includes:
EVALUATE; exceptions; failure to meet targets; justification
1.1
Student Evaluation of Teaching (SET) data must be collected using EVALUATE. The normal expectation is that staff included in the policy (see Section 2. Identification of staff and modules for SET) should conduct at least one SET survey during an academic year.
1.2
A School may decide in certain circumstances that some individuals are to be evaluated by SET more frequently over an agreed period of time. The following is a selection of such circumstances:
1.2.1
The individual is new to teaching and SET results will be useful to support the development of teaching skills.
1.2.2
The individual intends to apply for promotion and needs to collect SET over a period of time to fulfil the promotions criteria.
1.2.3
The individual has been identified through their Appraisal and Development Conversation (ADC) as needing to improve their teaching and frequent SET results are needed to track progress of this.
1.3
If any cases arise where a member of teaching academic staff has not conducted at least one SET survey in an academic year this should be brought to the attention of the Faculty Associate Dean for Education and Student Experience (UNNC), and justified.
2. Identification of staff and modules for SET
Includes:
scope; Head of School responsibilities; relationship with previous SET; additional surveys
All Research and Teaching and Teaching-focused staff who are teaching on Campus Solutions registered modules must be evaluated by SET. This applies regardless of the contracted hours with the University. Associates of the University can be evaluated by SET, including guest speakers and postgraduate research students who teach.
2.1
In rare cases a member of staff may only teach 4 hours or less in a teaching year. If this situation arises then the Head of School (or delegate) may decide that the individual should be exempt from SET, but they must have their teaching peer-observed.
2.2
The Head of School (or delegate) is responsible for identifying one module per year for which a member of staff should undertake SET.
2.3
That module should not normally be the same module that received SET the year before, and should where possible be a module for which the staff member is teaching a significant number of students (20 or more).
2.4
Any individual member of staff should be able to request additional SET surveys for any contribution they make to teaching for which they would like feedback (e.g. for professional development or module enhancement, or to support a promotion application or Lord Dearing Award application, etc.). Requests to set up additional SET surveys should be made directly to the Academic Services Office (UNNC). Modules which are not in Campus Solutions can be evaluated by using a non-standard survey.
3. Staff responsibilities
Includes:
opening and closing dates; provision of information; time; Blue Castle; EVALUATE; discussion of reports.
Staff who are being evaluated by SET have certain responsibilities that they must fulfil with support from their School. These are:
3.1
Ensure that an appropriate date and time for opening and closing the EVALUATE survey is agreed with the relevant Faculty office so as to maximise student participation.
3.2
Inform students at the appropriate time of the purpose of the survey and the period during which it will be live.
3.3
Ensure that students have time to complete the survey.
3.4
Display the information necessary to students to enable them to complete the survey. This is the Blue Castle address and the PIN if a non-standard survey is being used.
3.5
Consider using the Survey Monitor (in Blue Castle) to encourage participation.
3.6
Inform the relevent Faculty office if a survey fails to run for any reason so that the survey can be re-opened.
3.7
Be prepared to discuss SET reports as part of the Appraisal and Development Conversation (ADC).
3.8
Understand that there are no circumstances in which a student’s responses can be changed. The student can request that their responses are deleted by emailing the EVALUATE team, but will not be able to complete that particular survey again.
If you wish to request the deletion of your responses, please email:
Evaluate@nottingham.ac.uk
4. Access to SET results
Includes:
confidentiality; permission to publish scores; promotions committee
4.1
SET results are regarded as confidential to the individual and a range of School, Faculty and University staff who have specified organisational roles to fulfil which require access to individual scores.
4.2
Staff should be permitted (but not required) to publish their SET scores.
4.3
Members of the Management Board and Faculty Associate Dean for Educations and Student Experience (UNNC) will have access to all Faculty and all School SET reports both for the current year and for all previous years. This will include the ability to view individual SET reports (both scores and comments).
4.4
Members of Promotions Committee will have access to the SET scores of individuals submitting promotion cases.
4.5
The Head of School has access to all individual SET reports within the School including scores and comments in the current year and in all previous years. The Head of School will also have access to the overall School SET report.
4.6
Other relevant Faculty and School based staff who might have good reason to be given access to individual reports can be identified by the Faculty Associate Dean for Educations and Student Experience (UNNC). Levels of access may vary between Schools and Faculties but the following staff should be considered for access:
School Directors of Teaching and Learning (or equivalent);
Faculty Heads of Education and Student Experience (or equivalent);
Operations Managers;
Appraisal and Development Conversation (ADC) reviewers;
4.7
Other University departments and individuals will from time to time require access to individual SET reports to fulfil their role or carry out a specific function. Examples include Human Resources for a range of actions including disciplinary, grievance and performance processes and the Lord Dearing Award judging panel.
5. Dealing with abusive comments
Includes:
reporting abuse; University code of discipline; Student User Guide; disciplinary action
5.1
Abusive and personal comments are unacceptable and need to be removed from the EVALUATE system as quickly as possible.
5.2
Any individual receiving a comment that they identify as being abusive should report the abuse to a person agreed by the school, e.g. Head of School or Director of Learning and Teaching.  The abusive comment should be reported by the agreed person to the EVALUATE team who will remove the student’s ratings and abusive comments.
If you wish to report an abusive comment, please email:
Evaluate@nottingham.ac.uk
5.3
In deciding whether a comment is abusive the agreed person should use common sense principles and if necessary refer to the University Code of Discipline and the Code of Practice for users of the University computing facilities.
More information can be found here:
University code of discipline
Code of Practice for users of the University computing facilities
5.4
Students are informed of the seriousness of submitting abusive comments in the Student User Guide and it is recommended that Schools remind students of their responsibilities and indicate the seriousness of breaking the Discipline and Computing Facilities Codes.
Student User Guide
5.5
In principle authors of offensive comments can be identified and disciplinary action could be taken if deemed necessary.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
24 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/academic-regulations/reg-collection-and-use-of-sem.aspx
Header: Regulations for the collection and use of Student Evaluation of Module surveys
Intro: This page contains the University's regulation for the collection, use and publication of Student Evaluation of Module (SEM) surveys. Its content applies to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Regulations for the collection and use of Student Evaluation of Module surveys - The University of NottinghamRegulations for the collection and use of Student Evaluation of Module surveys
This page contains the University's regulation for the collection, use and publication of Student Evaluation of Module (SEM) surveys. Its content applies to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1. Collection of Student Evaluation of Module (SEM) surveys
Includes:
EVALUATE; modules taught by more than one teacher
1.1
Student Evaluation of Module (SEM) data must be collected using EVALUATE. The normal expectation will be that every module should be subject to SEM every academic year, but modules can be surveyed more than once when appropriate
1.2
Where a module is taught by more than one teacher the School should appoint one of the teaching team to collect the SEM evaluation. This will usually be the module convenor, the senior teacher or the team lead.
2. Staff responsibilities
Includes:
opening and closing dates; provision of information; time; Blue Castle; EVALUATE; discussion of reports.
Staff whose modules are being evaluated by SEM  have certain responsibilities that they must fulfil with support from their School. These are:
2.1
Ensure that an appropriate date and time for opening and closing the EVALUATE survey is agreed with the team creating the SEM surveys (e.g. Registry and Academic Affairs / Faculty Academic Office, as appropriate)  so as to maximise student participation.
2.2
Inform students at the appropriate time of the purpose of the survey and the period during which it will be live.
2.3
Ensure that students have time to complete the survey.
2.4
Display the information necessary to students to enable them to complete the survey. This is the Blue Castle address and the PIN if a non-standard survey is being used.
2.5
Consider using the Survey Monitor (in Blue Castle) to encourage participation.
2.6
Inform the team creating the SEM surveys (e.g. Registry and Academic Affairs / Faculty Academic Office, as appropriate)  if a survey fails to run for any reason so that the survey can be re-opened.
2.7
Understand that there are no circumstances in which a student’s responses can be changed. The student can request that their responses are deleted by emailing the
Evaluate team
, but will not be able to complete that particular survey again.
3. Access to SEM results
Includes:
confidentiality; permission to publish scores
3.1
Members of University Executive Board (UEB) / Associate Pro-Vice Chancellors (APVC) (UNUK), the Management Board / Faculty Associate Dean for Education and Student Experience (UNNC), Faculty Associate Dean for Teaching Learning (UNM) will have access to all Faculty and all School SEM reports both for the current year and for all previous years. This will include the ability to view individual SEM reports (both scores and comments).
3.2
The Head of School has access to all reports within the School including scores and comments and the overall School report.
3.3
Other relevant Faculty and School-based staff who might have good reason to be given access to individual reports can be identified by the APVC/Head of School (UNUK) and the Faculty Associate Dean for Education and Student Experience (UNNC) or the Faculty Associate Dean for Teaching Learning (UNM). Levels of access may vary between Schools and Faculties but the following staff should be considered for access:
School Directors of Education and Student Experience (or equivalent)
Heads of Education and Student Experience (or equivalent)
4. Publication of SEM results
Includes:
scores, comments and responses; availability; feedback or module review template; location
4.1
A summary response to the most recent student feedback available, such as SEM surveys must be published by the School within a reasonable time frame.
4.2
Published scores must be available to students who have completed the module and to students who might be undertaking the module in the future.
4.3
SEM scores should be published within a feedback or module review template (one is available in Blue Castle) and the teacher/module convenor must provide a commentary in response to the scores and comments. This commentary must indicate any changes to the module that have arisen as a result of student feedback.
4.4
SEM scores must be published in a location which is available to all relevant students within a School or Department. For example, this might be on the School Content Management System (CMS) or via a ‘community’ page in Moodle.
5. Dealing with abusive comments
Includes:
reporting abuse; University code of discipline; Student User Guide; disciplinary action
5.1
Abusive and personal comments are unacceptable and need to be removed from the EVALUATE system as quickly as possible.
5.2
Any individual receiving a comment that they identify as being abusive should report the abuse to a person agreed by the School, e.g. Head of School or Director of Education and Student Experience.  The abusive comment should be reported by the agreed person to the EVALUATE team who will remove the student’s ratings and abusive comments.
5.3
In deciding whether a comment is abusive the agreed person should use common sense principles and if necessary refer to the University Code of Discipline and the Code of Practice for users of the University computing facilities.
More information can be found here:
University code of discipline
Code of Practice for users of the University computing facilities
5.4
Students are informed of the seriousness of submitting abusive comments in the Student User Guide and it is recommended that Schools remind students of their responsibilities and indicate the seriousness of breaking the Discipline and Computing Facilities Codes.
Student User Guide
5.5
In principle authors of offensive comments can be identified and disciplinary action could be taken if deemed necessary.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
25 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/independent-assessors-role.aspx
Header: Independent Assessors role
Intro: This section contains detailed information with regards to the roles and responsibilities of the Independent Assessors for Apprenticeship Integrated End-Point Assessments. This information is only relevant to staff and students based at the UK campus.
Content:
Independent Assessors role - The University of NottinghamIndependent Assessors role
This section contains detailed information with regards to the roles and responsibilities of the Independent Assessors for Apprenticeship Integrated End-Point Assessments. This information is only relevant to staff and students based at the UK campus.The following is only applicable for Integrated programmes.
Where a specific integrated apprenticeship programme's End-Point Assessment plan makes references to other specified assessment roles within the marking and assessment team arrangements, the responsibilities noted below apply to all defined roles within that team.
1.   Appointment
1.1
Schools are responsible for providing nominations for the appointment of Independent Assessors (IAs) for their End-Point Assessments (EPA) on an annual basis. Council has the power to receive nominations and approve such appointments and discharges its responsibilities in this regard through the Quality and Standards Committee (QSC).
1.2
The IA may be appointed internally or externally, but must not be involved in the delivery of the apprenticeship training and must be independent from apprentices and employers.
1.3
It is the IA’s role to carry out the EPA, as set out in the assessment plan, and to ensure the assessment processes are reliable, fair and transparent and that they operate in line with the University’s Regulations.
1.4
The IA will be provided with guidance and undertake an induction and relevant training for the EPA delivery, which will be provided by the School.
1.5
The IA will be expected to engage in regular Continual Professional Development (CPD) activity related to their role in line with the relevant Apprenticeship Standard - and will be required to provide evidence of this to the School.
1.6
The IA will take part in marking, moderation and standardisation activities for the EPA and will produce a summary report to be reviewed at the Exam Board.
1.7
The School has a duty to ensure that a sufficient number of IAs are appointed, as outlined in the approved End-Point Assessment Organisation (EPAO) application documentation, which has taken into consideration the likely volume of EPAs to be undertaken within the given timeframe.
1.8
Schools should ensure that their apprentices are informed that it is inappropriate for them to directly contact IAs, and that other appropriate mechanisms are available for them to raise concerns regarding their individual performance in assessments, for example the Appeals or Complaints procedures.
2.  Main responsibilities of Independent Assessor (IA)
The main responsibilities of IAs are:
2.1
To be responsible for conducting End-Point Assessment (EPA) activities under the conditions, timescales and arrangements as set out in the EPA plan for the relevant apprenticeship Standard, including:
Review and confirm evidence regarding the EPA criteria
Observe and assess the apprentice in the observation of practice
Determine the observation grade
Determine the professional discussion grade
2.2
To participate in annual assessment training and assessment standardisation events
2.3
To annually submit evidence of CPD records to the relevant School within the agreed timescales
2.4
To annually review their conflict-of-interest declaration within the agreed timescales
2.5
To complete reports within university timescales
3.   Enhancement of quality
3.1
In addition to the responsibilities outlined in the previous section, IAs are asked to provide informative comment and recommendations on any good practice and innovation relating to learning, teaching and assessment they observe, and also opportunities to enhance the quality of the learning opportunities provided to apprentices.
4.   Criteria for appointment and termination of contract
Includes:
Conflict of Interest; apprenticeship standards; assessment plans; CPD
4.1
Nominees should have experience and expertise of the following:
Practice-based / vocational settings in relation to Apprenticeship programmes
Understanding of Apprenticeship Standards and Assessment Plans
Is occupationally and academically competent in degree-level assessment
4.2
Be independent of the apprentice, the EPAO (University of Nottingham) and employing organisation who are involved in delivering the apprenticeship
4.3
Be able to demonstrate the knowledge, skills and experience required of an IA outlined in the EPA plan, and meet all external regulatory requirements
4.4
In view of the importance of the IA, the University reserves the right to review the appointment of an IA in the following circumstances:
The IA fails to fulfil the terms of contract
A conflict of interest arises that cannot be satisfactorily resolved
EPA plans change to an extent that the IA can no longer demonstrate compliance with appointment criteria
The IA does not engage or does not produce evidence of continued CPD in line with the standards set out in the EPA Plan
The IA fails to engage with the University’s mandatory annual training
5.   Restrictions on appointment
Includes:
conflict of interest; categories and circumstances; reappointment restrictions
5.1
A conflict of interest is raised. For more information, please consult the following:
Policy on conflict of interest
5.2
Appointment of an IA will be carried out on an annual basis by the School, in conjunction with Registry and Academic Affairs (RAA).
5.3
Re-appointment (or renewal) of an IA who has previously fulfilled the role may be allowed, on the basis that the individual in question continues to meet all of the requirements of the Academic Standard and has shown an acceptable level of involvement in the past.
5.4
An IA should normally hold no more than one other similar post during the period of their appointment.
6.   Confirmation and period of appointment
6.1
IAs will be appointed on an annual basis.
6.2
Each IA will receive a formal letter of appointment from Registry and Academic Affairs (Quality and Student Management System Team), setting the programme(s) to be examined, the specific responsibilities and the fee.
7. Preparation of Independent Assessors (IA) for their role
Includes:
responsibility of Registry and Academic Affairs; appointments with no previous experience; responsibilities of the Head of School
7.1
Registry and Academic Affairs ensures that all IAs are informed about the University’s procedures and policies, including the University’s appeals and reassessment process, which may be by provision of an opportunity to attend a University or School induction event.
7.2
Where the individual appointed has no previous experience as an IA for any institution, the School should ensure that the appointment is, if practicable, made to a team of IAs, or that, with prior agreement, a more experienced IA will act as a mentor.
7.3
Heads of School are responsible for ensuring that IAs are provided with information on the University’s marking and grading policy, moderation practices and any additional requirements contained within the Apprenticeship Standard or EPA plan
7.4
The School should ensure that all IAs are given the opportunity to engage with training / briefing materials at both University and School level.  Engagement with such materials by the IA is considered mandatory.
7.5
Heads of School are responsible for ensuring that IAs are given the relevant material and adequate time to carry out the role.
8.   Detailed responsibilities of Independent Assessors (IA)
Includes:
requirements; Microsoft Forms report; annual report; final summary report
8.1
IAs are responsible for making assessment decisions. In doing so, they need to ensure that marking criteria have been applied rigorously and fairly and that the outcomes reflect the standards set out in the EPA plan.
8.2
IAs are responsible for providing the University with a summary report in a digital format, using the template provided.  Reports are to be submitted within the prescribed timescales outlined in the EPA Plan. The IA’s summary report should be submitted through Microsoft Forms to Registry and Academic Affairs (Quality and Student Management Systems team), who will then arrange for the fee to be paid.
8.3
The report form is available on request, by emailing:
indi-assessors@nottingham.ac.uk
8.4
Registry and Academic Affairs (Quality and Student Management team) will forward copies of the report to the Head of School (for action). Copies should also be made available to the External Examiner for the EPA, the Exam Board and Apprenticeship Committee.
9.   Format of the Independent Assessors’ (IA) report
Includes:
report explicitly on standards, assessments and awards; may also make a written report on confidential matters
9.1
In their report, the IA is asked to report on the suitability of assessment, grading and moderation process and awards using the standardised report form provided and to draw attention in particular to any good practice, or areas requiring attention. If, to fulfil additional PSRB requirements, additional information is required this should be submitted as supplementary material to the main report.
10.   Dealing with the Independent Assessors (IA) summary report
Includes:
School responsibilities; opportunities for feedback; circulation; communication requirements; responsibilities of Quality and Standards Committee
10.1
It is the School's responsibility to ensure that the annual IA reports comply with the standard requirements outlined within the EPA plan. Summary reports must be available to the External Examiner, (EA) and the Apprenticeship Committee. If an IA fails to submit an annual summary report within the time stipulated by the School in order to meet the assessment board date, this may constitute grounds for not re-appointing the IA in a subsequent year.
10.2
To assist Schools in fulfilling their responsibility, Registry and Academic Affairs (Quality and Student Management Systems team) will notify them annually of any outstanding reports. The School should provide an opportunity for the IA to give feedback arising from the performance of his/her duties, and for the School to provide information to the IA on how the School has addressed issues raised in any previous report(s).
10.3
Subsequently, the School will forward each report of an IA, together with the written report on how the School has addressed the issues raised, to Registry and Academic Affairs (Quality and Student Management Systems team).
10.4
A letter is to be sent to each IA by the School on the actions or otherwise that have resulted from the report.  A copy of each letter should be forwarded to Registry and Academic Affairs (Quality and Student Management Systems team) to be stored as a record.
10.5
It is the duty of the Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) to assure itself that any comments or recommendations of an IA have been addressed by the School and, if it is not satisfied, to seek to resolve the matter through a dialogue with the School.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
07 March 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/professional-work-based-learning/uono-ext-circs.aspx
Header: University of Nottingham Online Extenuating circumstances regulation
Intro: This page contains the University of Nottingham Online's extenuating circumstances regulation. This content is only applicable to UoNO staff and learners, but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
University of Nottingham Online Extenuating circumstances regulation - The University of NottinghamUniversity of Nottingham Online Extenuating circumstances regulation
This page contains the University of Nottingham Online's extenuating circumstances regulation. This content is only applicable to UoNO staff and learners, but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.This procedure applies to all Microcredentials offered by UoNO and provides Learners with details on how they can apply to extend their enrolment for a Microcredential. The impact of an extension to enrolment can be to give a Learner another assessment submission at a later date.
A Learner may request an enrolment extension through the Extenuating Circumstances Regulation at any point up to the last working day before the final submission point of your Microcredential. Requests made on or after the final assessment submission deadline will not normally be considered.
If unable to submit an assessment on time and/or unable to continue with their Microcredential, a Learner must submit an extenuating circumstances claim if they wish UoNO to consider their situation.
A Learner can only be granted one extenuating circumstances claim on each Microcredential and to a duration no longer than that required to allow them access to one further submission point.
If a Learner has enrolled onto a Microcredential through sponsorship, their extenuating circumstances request may be subject to approval from their respective funding scheme or employer.
A Learner will not be asked to provide evidence to support their extenuating circumstances claim. We will ask Learners to outline the circumstances impacting their ability to complete the Microcredential.Extenuating circumstances are situations or events that meet all of the following criteria:
Exceptional - different to what a student has to deal with in their usual day-to-day life.
Outside of a student’s control – there was nothing that the student could do to stop it happening.
Negative impact – it must have had a demonstrably significant, negative impact on the student’s ability to study or to undertake an assessment.
The timing of the circumstances must be relevant to the claimed impact; these are usually short-term in nature.
The impacted period of learning can be any period that has occurred during the Learner’s enrolment on the microcredential.As long as the Learner’s circumstances satisfy these conditions, and it is the Learner’s first request, the request will be granted.Following an extension, it is the Learner’s responsibility to ensure that they have read and understood the current assessment criteria of the Microcredential as these may change during the extended period of enrolment.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
14 March 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/degree-outcomes-statement.aspx
Header: Degree outcomes statement
Intro: This page provides information about the Degree outcomes statement and access to the University of Nottingham’s statement. This page is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Degree outcomes statement - The University of NottinghamDegree outcomes statement
This page provides information about the Degree outcomes statement and access to the University of Nottingham’s statement. This page is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
Degree outcome statements were first introduced as part of the UK Standing Committee for Quality Assessment (UKSCQA), who published a Statement of Intent which asked that institutions awarding degrees should publish a degree outcomes statement analysing their institutional degree classification profile and articulating the results of an internal institutional review.
More information can be found here:
UKSCQA - Degree Classification - A Statement of Intent
Statement
The current Degree outcomes statement for the University of Nottingham can be found here:
Degree outcomes statement
The statement has been prepared in accordance with guidance from the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA).
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
02 January 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/qsc.aspx
Header: Quality and Standards Committee
Intro: This page contains information on membership duties and support, and the process of appointment and replacement. This may be useful for staff and students across all UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Quality and Standards Committee - The University of NottinghamQuality and Standards Committee
This page contains information on membership duties and support, and the process of appointment and replacement. This may be useful for staff and students across all UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1.0 Introduction/Overview
The Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) is one of the University’s Committees, which assists the Teaching and Learning Committee in discharging its responsibilities for the University's academic quality and standards.  In turn, the Teaching and Learning committee reports to the University Education and Student Experience Committee, which reports to the Senate. QSC also provides advice to University senior committees on the implications for quality and standards of any educational strategies and policies under development and on portfolio diversification.
2.0 Purpose
The purpose of the Quality and Standards Committee is to:
To oversee the development and review of all academic Quality and Standards related regulations, policies, procedures and codes of practice at the University of Nottingham.   This includes Memoranda of Agreement for approval and renewal as well as new/revised programme and module specifications (including microcredential modules and UoNO verification work).
To keep relevant Quality Manual regulations, policies and procedures under regular review.
To approve the withdrawal of programmes upon which students are currently registered or for which applicants hold offers.
To approve requests for cases outside of regulations.
To approve the appointment of External Examiners, Internal Assessors and External Assessors and to receive External Examiners' Reports and School responses for consideration as well as receiving reports from professional statutory and regulatory bodies with regard to accredited programmes for consideration.
To receive Schools' annual monitoring reports for consideration and provide University summaries of areas of commendations and concerns as they relate to Academic Quality and Standards.
3.0 Scope
This information is relevant to staff and students, learners and apprentices across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
4.0 Key Principles
4.1 Membership
Current members of Quality and Standards Committee
Name
Chair
Kim Edwards
Deputy Chairs
Harriet Allen
Shailesh Mistry
Appointed Representatives
Faculty of Arts (UNUK)
Steven Morrison
Monica White
Faculty of Social Sciences (UNUK)
David Harvey
Venga Sarma
Faculty of Science (UNUK)
To be appointed
Colin Johnson
Faculty of Engineering (UNUK)
Katy Voisey
Ed Morris
Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences (UNUK)
Ian Kerr
Alison Mostyn
Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences (UNM)
Wendy Siew Wei Gan
Faculty of Science and Engineering (UNM)
Nishanth Chemmangattvalappil
Foundation Programmes (UNM)
Premanand Krishnan
Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences (UNNC)
Shaun Goldfinch
Faculty of Science and Engineering (UNNC)
Nicholas Hamm
Nottingham University Business School China (UNNC)
Andrew Edwards
Student Representatives
Education Officer (Nottingham)
Scarlett (Jiale) Zhang
Education Officer (Malaysia)
Kayla Shaffiyah
Education Officer (China)
Lucy (Luxi) Cai
Postgraduate Officer (Nottingham)
Clement Asante
Ex Officio Members
Associate Dean, University of Nottingham Malaysia
Wei Keong Too
Jessica Price
Associate Dean, University of Nottingham Ningbo Campus
Hao Tan
Dave Towey
Derek Irwin
Associate Director Quality and Student Management System, Registry and Academic Affairs
Sandra Mienczakowski
Head of Student Registry
Joo Pei Poh
Director of Academic Services Office
Maggie Yang
Associate Director of Assessments, Registry and Academic Affairs
Carolyn Taylor
Associate Director Student Wellbeing
Claire Thompson
Researcher Academy
Jeanette Woolard
Chair of Foundation Year Committee
Beverley Allan
Academic Director of Professional and Work Based Learning
Jonathan Tallant
Head of Operations, Institute for Professional and Work Based Learning
Alison Reeves
Associate Director Education Excellence
Sarah Seeley
Senior Quality Assurance Manager
Ian Bainbridge
Secretary
Educational Excellence
4.2 Appointment / replacement process for Faculty QSC representatives
4.2.1 Background
Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) is key to university processes and ensuring standards, with a membership spanning all Faculties and Campuses. Additional members from Professional services departments and hold a post on QSC are 'ex offico' (i.e the role on QSC comes with the underlying role)
For the faculty representatives in the UK, this will include separate representatives for undergraduate and postgraduate levels within each Faculty.
The international campuses currently operate slightly differently in that the Associate Deans for Teaching and Learning are members, by virtue of their post. Thus for UNNC and UNM, there is one additional QSC representative for each Faculty (not two).
The process and terms of appointment for the Faculty QSC Representative role is as follows:
An outline person specification (see below) is available to prospective members.
As vacancies become available University and Faculty networks will be used to advise academic staff a replacement committee member is required.
Staff in schools may nominate themselves.
If there is more than one nomination, candidates will be invited to interview.  In a situation where there is only one nomination the Chair will meet with the academic to discuss the role and remit of a QSC member.
The term for service on the committee will be four years or for the duration of an 'ex offico' post is held.
When a member reaches the end of their term they will only be asked to do a further year in exceptional circumstances.
Members cannot return to the Committee as representatives for 5 years after the end of their previous term; members can apply for the Chair and Deputy role within 5 years of a previous term.
4.2.2 Person specification
Experience of Quality and Standards and related Quality Assurance structures
Knowledge of the Quality Manual and the University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (UNQF)
Understanding of the roles and responsibilities of the Committee, as set out in the Terms of Reference
Awareness of University strategic objectives
Ability to influence, and champion the committee’s interests and aims as appropriate
Strong analytical and communication skills
Critical listening and appraisal skills
Ability to work within a framework of collective decision-making in the best interests of the Committee and the University
Integrity to act without self-interest
Willingness to contribute knowledge, experience and views
Vision and commitment
4.2.3 Conditions
Attendance at five QSC meetings annually - normally October/November, January, March, May, June, with an extra meeting in July if necessary
Approximately 150 hours per year as set out in the Workload Planning Model
Act as an Educational Enhancement and Assurance Review (EEAR) panel member in a Quality Assurance role.
Prior agreement to be sought from line manager
4.3 Membership duties and support
4.3.1 Duties of Committee members
Responsibilities of Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) members include:
attendance at meetings of QSC and such working groups of that committee as may be established
membership of the pool of members constituting Academic Appeals Panels and Academic Misconduct Committees, often in the role of Chair. Determining also whether individual appeals and complaints warrant a hearing before a Panel
attendance at regular Faculty meetings with the purpose of communicating QSC discussions and decisions, as well as receiving Faculty concerns about quality assurance matters.
being responsible for providing interpretation and agreeing minor amendments of an allocated section of the Quality Manual on behalf of QSC
scrutinising and making recommendations with respect to new programme specifications
making recommendations with respect to withdrawal of programmes
approving revised programme specifications and new and revised modules where the Quality Manual requires the involvement of QSC due to the particular nature of the new/revised material
approving nominations for the appointment of External Examiners that fall outside the stipulations of the Quality Manual and considering External Examiners' reports
deciding individual student/applicant cases falling out with the Quality Manual/Regulations. Such cases must be submitted for consideration by QSC by an appropriate person with delegated authority on behalf of the relevant school or professional service
monitoring Schools' decisions on extenuating circumstances claims
being prepared to act as members of working groups, or periodic review panels established by the University’s Education and Student Experience Committee and to assist the University’s Assistant Pro-Vice-Chancellor (APVC) for Teaching and Curriculum Leadership in communicating with Schools on teaching and learning developments
All Schools are expected to recognise their member of QSC's contribution to the University in their assignment of staff workloads.
4.3.2 Conflict of duties
Members of QSC may not be able to take on posts at school or faculty level which may sometimes be in conflict with the duties of the role as outlined above.
Members of QSC will not be given items for consideration which have been put forward for approval by their own School.
4.3.3 Support for Committee members
In all of the above activities, members can expect to receive full support and guidance from appropriate members of Registry and the Admissions team. This will include providing information on precedents in handling appeals cases and on arranging discussion of issues arising from the approval of programme specifications.
In some cases, the Committee may need to take actions notwithstanding regulations. Guidance, in the event of such situations, can be found in the following:
QSC guidance on decisions notwithstanding regulations
5.0 Related Policies
From July 2020, all Policies included within the Quality Manual will also been listed within a dedicated Policies section, which will functions as a directory. This can be accessed at any time by using the “Policies A - Z” button in the lower left corner of every page (within the Quality Manual)
6.0 Related Procedures
How to propose changes to the Quality Manual
How to submit an 'outside' regulation case to the Quality and Standards Committee
7.0 Version Control Table
Version Control Table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework; Content also reviewed and updated to incorporate changes to TOR for additional UNNC and UNM members.
QSC
July 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
07 January 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-professional-doc-edd.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Professional Doctorate in Education (EdD)
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Education (EdD). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Professional Doctorate in Education (EdD) - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Professional Doctorate in Education (EdD)
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Education (EdD). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
The regulations for the Doctor of Education are the same as those which govern the PhD except where the following modify or supplement them.
Admission requirements
1.
A candidate for the Doctor of Education must
(a)
be a graduate of this or any other approved university holding either a bachelor's degree with first or upper second class honours
(b)
or such other qualifications as may be deemed by the University to be the equivalent of any qualifications referred to in (a) above.
2.
Candidates will normally be expected to have a minimum of two years' relevant professional experience within a relevant field.
3.
All candidates will be asked to provide examples of academic writing and will be interviewed.
Course of study
4.
A candidate for the degree of Doctor of Education must have pursued at this University a part-time course of study comprising a taught component and a major research project. The minimum period of registration will be four years' part-time study.
Taught component
5.
The taught component requires the successful completion of 120 credits of modules (Part I), which should normally be completed by the end of the second year. The modules available will be listed in the School programme handbook. There is no compensation for modules on the Doctor of Education.
6.
The University's Regulations for Taught Master's Degrees, Postgraduate Diploma and Postgraduate Certificate courses shall apply with regard to satisfactory progression on the taught element of the degree. More information on regulations can be found here:
Postgraduate Taught study regulations
7.
Candidates who successfully complete part or the whole of the taught programme and do not undertake the research component may be considered for the following awards: Postgraduate Certificate in Education Research (60 credits), Postgraduate Diploma in Education Research (120 credits).
The award of MA in Education Research (180 credits) may be available to a student who transfers their registration and is successfully assessed on the formal submission of a 60 credit dissertation.
These awards are in accordance with the application of the University's regulations for postgraduate taught courses as indicated in 6 above.
Due to local context, MA in Education Research, Postgraduate Certificate in Education Research (60 credits), and Postgraduate Diploma in Education Research (120 credits) are not applicable to University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC) for applying as a degree/award nor as a result of Viva examination.
Progression to the research component
8.
For progression to the Research Component, students will have passed all assignments in the taught component and will normally have achieved marks of at least 60% in a minimum of 3 of the modules. In cases where candidates have passed the taught component but not at this level, the Examiners may exercise their discretion in allowing progression to the research component.
9.
The Research Component starts with compulsory attendance at the Summer School undertaken at the end of year two.
10.
All candidates will go through a Confirmation of Research Status process. This will include a submission of a paper of 10-12,000 words and will involve a viva voce.
Thesis requirement
11.
The thesis component requires candidates to undertake original research in an approved topic in a relevant field in education and normally complete a 50,000-60,000 word thesis or, if appropriate and agreed with supervisors, a thesis portfolio consisting of three linked pieces of research, each of 10–12,000 words, together with a 20-24,000 word overview and meta-analysis. Either a thesis or a thesis portfolio might include educational products (e.g. film, design research outputs, software) as part of the submission, this would be in addition to the requisite 50,000 words.
The thesis/thesis portfolio will:
Consist of work that has been mainly carried out while the candidate has been registered for this degree;
Demonstrate the candidate's ability to integrate academic analysis with practical relevance and application.
Assessment of the thesis
12.
Candidates are required to present themselves for a viva voce examination to be conducted by one Internal (academic) Examiner who is not one of the candidate's supervisors and one External (academic) Examiner, both of whom would normally be senior educationalists relevant to the field.
Outcomes of examination
13.
The degree of Doctor of Education will be conferred on candidates who have successfully completed the taught component of the programme and have satisfied the Examiners as to the standard of the thesis or portfolio.
14.
The Examiners may recommend to the University the following outcomes of examination:
Award of degree for which the student is registered, or
Award of the degree subject to correction of typographical errors within one month
Award of the degree subject to minor amendments to be completed within three months, or
Require the candidate to attend for a second viva voce examination and resubmit the same thesis (which may be subject to minor amendments to be completed within three months), or
Resubmit the thesis in a revised form within twelve months with/without attending a second viva voce examination, or
That no higher degree be awarded and that the candidate is not allowed to present him/herself again for examination for the degree for which the thesis was submitted.
15.
Where a thesis has been resubmitted and/or a second viva voce examination has occurred, the Examiners may recommend to the University the following outcomes of examination:
Award of degree for which the student is registered, or
Award of the degree subject to correction of typographical errors within one month, or
Award of the degree with minor amendments to be completed within three months to the satisfaction of the internal examiner, or
(in the case of PhD students) Award of degree of MPhil without further conditions, or
(in the case of PhD students) Award of the degree of MPhil with minor amendments to be completed within three months
No higher degree awarded and no further examination opportunity.
Due to local context, Master of Philosophy (MPhil) is not applicable to University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC) for applying as a degree nor as a result of EdD or PhD examination.
16.
Candidates who successfully complete the whole of the taught programme but fail the thesis or thesis portfolio may be considered for the award of the Postgraduate Diploma in Education Research in line with the taught credits already achieved.
The award of MA in Education Research (180 credits) may be available to a student who transfers their registration and is successfully assessed on the formal submission of a 60 credit dissertation.
Due to local context, MA in Education Research and Postgraduate Diploma in Education Research are not applicable to University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC) for applying as a degree/award nor as a result of Viva examination.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 February 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/professional-work-based-learning/microcredentials.aspx
Header: UoN microcredentials
Intro: This section contains the University's microcredential study regulations and microcredential design and approval guidelines. These pages are only applicable to UoNO staff and learners, but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
UoN microcredentials - The University of NottinghamUoN microcredentials
This section contains the University's microcredential study regulations and microcredential design and approval guidelines. These pages are only applicable to UoNO staff and learners, but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.University of Nottingham Online microcredential regulations
Credit-bearing microcredential design and approval
University of Nottingham Online Extenuating Circumstances Regulation
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
14 March 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/professional-work-based-learning/uono-verification-service.aspx
Header: UoNO Verification Service
Intro: This section provides information on the University of Nottingham Online verification service and includes regulations, process and template forms
Content:
UoNO Verification Service - The University of NottinghamUoNO Verification Service
This section provides information on the University of Nottingham Online verification service and includes regulations, process and template forms1. Overview
The University of Nottingham may sometimes verify the claims made by Continuing professional development (CPD) providers for their learning products. In so-doing, UoN does not thereby endorse or recommend the learning product. Rather, through verification, UoN confirms that the learning product does what is claimed for it, by the CPD provider.
In particular, through verification UoN confirms that learners successfully completing the learning product will have met the learning outcomes claimed for the learning product by the CPD provider.
2. UoNO Regulation on Verification
2.1
Verification may only be offered for learning products that are below degree level (i.e. at level 5 or below). These products may
not
be used for Recognition of Other Learning for degree credits.
2.2
Where verification is offered, learners successfully completing the learning product will receive a digital badge from UoN that confirms their successful completion of the learning product. This badging is not recognised by UoN as contributing to the completion of any degree qualification.
2.3
Before verification can begin, UoNO must satisfy itself that the prospective client is of suitable standing by undertaking due diligence and forwarding a business case to the Planning and Resource Committee (PRC) UoNO sub-committee for consideration and decision.
2.4
The verification process has three phases, each requiring some review. Prior to commencing those phases, Academic Experts and External Reviewers must be pre-approved by QSC.
2.5   Phase 1 - Review of the CPD provider’s platform and materials:
Providers delivery platform and materials  are reviewed to confirm that learners successfully completing the learning product should meet the learning outcomes claimed for the learning product by the CPD provider and should be able to do so with the support proposed by the provider.
2.6   Phases 2 and 3 post completion of the learning product reviews:
Following successful completion of phase 1, UoN will evaluate each learner cohort in order to determine whether a digital badge will be issued to that cohort.
2.7   Phase 2  A Post delivery review:
CPD provider’s platform and materials are re-reviewed for a specific learning product after learners have completed that product to confirm that the CPD provider used the platform and materials first reviewed in phase 1 (and/or any deviations were non-material).
2.8   Phase 3 Monitoring of standards:
Evaluation of a sample of the learners’ completed work and feedback, alongside evaluation of any marking rubrics used to confirm that the work completed is of a standard that demonstrates that learners successfully completing the learning product have met the learning outcomes claimed for the learning product by the CPD provider.
On successful completion of all three phases by the University, learners in the relevant cohort will be issued with a digital badge.
The phases must be completed in order.  If any phase is not successfully completed, a digital badge will not be issued to the cohort in question.
2.9   Annual review
An Annual Review of the verification products and processes undertaken by an External Reviewer will be undertaken for all verifications.
The annual review is the means by which the university ensures that  UoN policy and processes were followed effectively and  to  ensure that the learning products being verified are of a  suitable standard, and that the student performances are judged appropriately.  The aim of this process is
not
to scrutinise learners’ work or individual programmes/teaching materials that have been verified.
3. Process for Verification
3.1
This process outlines the steps that must be gone through for UoNO to verify the online provision of a provider external to UoN and to award a UoN digital badge to learners.
3.2
Verification may only be offered in cases where the online provision is not credit bearing and UoNO verified online provision may not be used for the award of credit at the University of Nottingham.
3.3
A digital badge acts as digital confirmation that the learner has achieved the learning outcomes of the learning product. For the award of a digital badge to learners, all three phases of the verification process must be completed with approval.
3.4
The process may be halted at any stage and by either the client or UoN.
3.5   Phase 0:
Prior to the initiation of Phase 1, UoNO must satisfy itself that the prospective client is of suitable standing by undertaking due diligence, including steps a - e.
(a)
When a client approaches UoNO to request verification, the Academic Director of UoNO determines whether or not the scope and scale of the project are appropriate for verification, and whether or not the UoNO wishes to partner with the client (including liaising with UoNO CEO regarding the potential new client). Approval at this stage does not commit UoNO to verification. This step of the process is purely to confirm initial interest in the project on the part of UoNO.
(b)
The client is asked to confirm that they wish to engage in the verification process, with all aspects explained to them, including: timelines, pricing and process.
(c)
The Business Case for partnering with the client should be prepared and submitted to the Planning and Resource Committee (PRC) UoNO  sub-committee for consideration.   The Business   Case should include information on the proposed verification, the due diligence undertaken and the pricing model, and any other information requested by the committee.
(d)
If the PRC UoNO sub-committee recommends to PRC that the proposed verification project can be approved, and this is agreed, confirmation will be provided to the CEO/Academic Director in writing.
(e)
Once approval has been given, the project can move to Phase 1. UoNO and the prospective client may start work for Phase 1, at risk, prior to formal approval being given.
3.6   Phase 1 - Review of the CPD provider’s platform and materials:
A review of the CPD provider’s platform and materials for each specific learning product. The goal of Phase 1 is to confirm that learners successfully completing the learning product should meet the learning outcomes claimed for the learning product by the CPD provider and should do so with the support claimed by the provider.
(a)
Working with HR and Schools, UoNO must recruit Academic Experts from the wider UoN to engage in any/each of the phases verification process and outcomes review. Academic Experts external to the UoN are not permitted for the Phase 1, 2 or 3 reviews.  The Academic Expert(s) need to be a subject area expert with suitable qualifications (eg. AFHEA)  and should also have experience in the development, implementation and/or design of teaching programmes. They would usually have external examiner experience. If required, this could be more than one person. Please see the ‘guidance for Appointment of Academic Experts’ (Appendix 1 of the Academic Expert Nomination form) for more information.
(b)
If such Academic Experts cannot be found to do the reviewing, verification cannot proceed.
(c)
These Academic Experts require QSC approval prior to undertaking any review work (see template Academic Expert nomination form).
(d)
The recruitment process will be managed by UoNO, in collaboration with HR as necessary.
(e)
The Academic Expert(s) must complete the Phase 1 Verification Template (see template Phase 1 verification template ) and send to the UoNO Academic Director. In completing the Phase 1 Verification Template, the Academic Expert(s) should consult the Guidance on Standards for Verification.
(i)
If no concerns are raised, the Academic Director should confirm that verification will be granted and the Academic Director must send the completed Phase 1 Verification Template to QSC for report (ss-qsc-cases@exmail.nottingham.ac.uk). The Academic Director may also ask QSC for guidance or advice if they wish to do so.
(ii)
If concerns are raised, or more information is requested by the Academic Expert(s), the Academic Director may either ask the client for more information, or else they should decline to grant verification. There is no upper limit on the number of times that additional information may be sought.
(iii)
If granted, Phase 1 verification of the learning product will last for 12 months. The only exception to this is if UoNO has concerns raised through Phase 3 that the learning product is not enabling learners to meet learning outcomes.
(iv)
In advance of the 12 month period coming to a close, the Academic Director of UoNO should commence the Phase 1 verification process once again. If not renewed by the 12 month deadline, then Phase 1 verification will automatically lapse at the 12 month mark.
(v)
If verification lapses, the UoNO Academic Director must inform QSC  that Phase 1 verification has lapsed.
(vi)
Once verification is granted, the client may not make alterations to the provision without approval. If they wish to do make changes, they must contact the Academic Director who will determine whether the changes are minor and do not affect Phase 1 verification, whether to re-instigate the Phase 1 verification process described above, or whether to remove verification. Anything other than minor changes should be reported to QSC (minor changes would be picked up in a Phase 2 review).
(vii)
Phase 1 may be completed without completing Phases 2 and 3.
UoN guidance on standards for verification
Academic expert nomination form
External Reviewer nomination form
3.7   Phase 2 - Post delivery review:
Phase 2 consists of a re-review of the CPD provider’s platform and materials for a specific learning product after the learners have completed the learning product, to confirm that the CPD provider used of the platform and materials first reviewed in Phase 1 (and/or any deviations were non-material).  This review is required prior to a Phase 3 review (for learners’ digital badges).
For avoidance of doubt, Phase 1 must precede Phase 2.  The Academic Expert(s) do not have to be the same person/people as the Phase 1 review, but may be.
The Academic Expert(s) must complete the Phase 2 Verification Template  and send to the UoNO Academic Director. In completing the Phase 2 Verification Template, the Academic Expert(s) should consult the Guidance on Standards for Verification . Any deviations from the Phase 1 approval should be highlighted and discussed by the Academic Expert and Academic Director to determine if those change invalidate Phase 1.
(a)
If no concerns are raised, the Academic Director should confirm that Phase 2 re-verification will be granted and the Academic Director must send the Phase 2 Verification Template  to QSC for report (ss-qsc-cases@exmail.nottingham.ac.uk). The Academic Director may also ask QSC for guidance or advice if they wish to do so.
(b)
If concerns are raised, or more information is requested by Academic Expert(s), the Academic Director may either ask the client for more information, or else they should decline to grant verification. There is no upper limit on the number of times that additional information may be sought.
3.8   Phase 3 - Monitoring of standards:
3.8.1
Phase 3 consists in an evaluation of a sample of the learners’ completed work and feedback, alongside any marking rubrics used to confirm that the work completed is of a standard that demonstrates that learners successfully completing the learning product have met the learning outcomes claimed for the learning product by the CPD provider.
3.8.2
For avoidance of doubt, Phases 1 and 2 must precede Phase 3.  The Academic Expert(s) would normally be the same person/people as Phase 2, but may be different.
(a)
The Academic Expert must review learner outcomes within each cohort in order for the UoN digital badge to be awarded to learners within that cohort.
(b)
It is necessary for the Academic Expert to be able to select which learners work is reviewed.  Work should be reviewed from a minimum of 25% of the cohort up to a maximum of the work of 40 learners, depending on cohort size. This sample should be selected randomly but should include at least one submission from each mark range (where they exist): e.g. 0-39, 40-49, 50-59, 60-69, 70-100. Additionally, all fails should be reviewed.
(c)
The Academic Expert(s) must complete a review of learner work and feedback as well as the marking rubrics, and complete the Phase 3 Verification Template  and send to the Academic Director. In completing the Phase 3 Verification Template, the Academic Expert(s) should consult the Guidance on Standards for Verification.
(i)
If no concerns are raised, the Academic Director can confirm to the client that the Phase 3 review has been satisfied, and UoN digital badges may be issued to the learners within that cohort who have satisfied the learning outcomes specified. The Academic Director must send the completed Phase 3 Verification template to QSC (ss-qsc-cases@exmail.nottingham.ac.uk) for report.
(ii)
If concerns are raised, or the Academic Expert asks for additional information, the Academic Director may either ask the client for more information, or else they should inform the client that UoN Digital Badges may not be issued to this cohort. .  If the Academic Director reaches the decision that UoN Digital Badges may not be issued to this cohort, this decision should be reported to QSC (ss-qsc-cases@exmail.nottingham.ac.uk) and the learning product should be re-reviewed using the verification process described above.
3.8.3
UoNO must maintain a complete and up to date record of all verified courses and Phase 3 outcomes reviews and award (or not) of digital badges, with accompanying documentation.
3.9   Annual Review:
3.9.1
The verification of external learning products will be reviewed annually by an External Reviewer who will be asked to review materials produced by UoN Academic Expert(s), including verification reports and reviews of outcomes. For avoidance of doubt, the External Review does not review the underlying materials provided by the external CPD provider.
3.9.2
The purpose of the external annual review is to establish whether the regulations and processes around verification are being correctly implemented, and to give external advice as to how the regulations and processes might be improved. It will enable the University to ensure that the learning products being verified are of a suitable standard, and that the student performances are judged appropriately.
3.9.3
UoNO are to recruit this External Reviewer using the approach described in the External Examiner for taught courses process . External Reviewers are appointed on an annual basis up to a normal maximum of four years' service.  UoNO will need to ensure that they nominate suitable candidates for the roles of External Reviewer, ensuring the External Reviewer Nomination forms for appointment of External   Reviewer are sent to the Quality and Student Management Systems team for approval by QSC.
3.9.4
The External Reviewers are asked to complete the External Review template form . Once this is complete, it should be sent to the Quality and Student Management Systems team for QSC consideration as part of the PG annual review cycle.
4. Templates
UoNO only
UoNO Phase 1 Verification Template
UoNO Phase 2 Verification Template
UoNO Phase 3 Verification Template
UoNO Verification External Reviewer Template
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
30 July 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-role-and-responsibilities-of-the-internal-assessor.aspx
Header: Role and responsibilities of the Internal Assessor
Intro: This page contains detailed information about the role and responsibilities of Internal Assessors for research degree programmes, including policy, criteria and appointment requirements. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Role and responsibilities of the Internal Assessor - The University of NottinghamRole and responsibilities of the Internal Assessor
This page contains detailed information about the role and responsibilities of Internal Assessors for research degree programmes, including policy, criteria and appointment requirements. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Policy
This guidance should be read in conjunction with the Progression Review of Research Students section of the Quality Manual and all other policies on Research Degrees, especially all other Research Degree regulations and the University policy on personal relationships at work.
For doctoral students undergoing Progression Review in Stage 1 and 2, an in-person meeting between PGR and an Internal Assessor is required.
For more information about Progression Review, please consult the following:
PGR Progression Review - Process Map
Regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) and Master of Philosophy (MPhil)
An Internal Assessor is strongly recommended in Stage 3 Progression Review for independent scrutiny, consistency and quality assurance.
1. Eligibility to act as Internal Assessor
The Internal Assessor(s) should:
have (co)supervised at least one PGR student to completion OR
have examined at least one UK PhD OR
have completed at least one previous UK progression review for a research degree.
undertake continuing professional development in relevant postgraduate educational areas
possess sufficient knowledge of the subject area relating to the PGR’s degree programme to be able to effectively assess progress.
normally be a University of Nottingham employee or have a contractual arrangement with UoN (e.g. a Memorandum of Understanding).
It is appropriate in some cases to identify individuals from other schools/departments or alternative suitable environments provided that those individuals have appropriate and relevant knowledge of the PGR's field/discipline and hold professional status equivalent to a University of Nottingham academic position (i.e. R&T or R Assistant/Associate/full Professor).
be independent from the student and all members of the supervisory team including any external supervisors.
not have any personal relationship with the PGR or the supervisory team throughout the candidate’s journey.
If the only suitable Internal Assessor does not have necessary experience of PGR co-supervision then a mentor can be appointed to support the development of the Internal Assessor and ensure assessment process is followed in the first year.
If a relationship develops between the Assessor and PGR, the Assessor should step down and inform the Head of School.
The Head of School may delegate some or all of the responsibilities in this Policy to a suitable deputy, for example the School/ PGR Director. For the purposes of this Policy, the use of ‘School’ also includes Research Groups in the Faculty of Engineering, and, only when appropriate and Progression Review is managed through Doctoral Training Programmes/Centres for Doctoral Training, DTP /CDT Directors.
2. Appointment of the Internal Assessor
The appointment of the Internal Assessor should be initiated, and the PGR made aware of this, within 3 months of the PGR’s first registration.
The Head of School should approve the appointment of the Internal Assessor with input from the supervisory team and PGR.
If an Internal Assessor is unable to continue in post throughout the PGR’s period of registered study, or either the student and /or supervisors request a change, a new Internal Assessor will be appointed as soon as possible.
Schools may appoint more than one Internal Assessor for a PGR, with consideration of workload and expertise, and for a justifiable reason, for example if the research is inter- or transdisciplinary. All Internal Assessors must be actively engaged in and contribute to the formal Progression Review of the PGR, including attending the required meeting.
Schools should consider whether the appointment of a particular Internal Assessor would risk the introduction of the perception of bias or conflict of interest into the process. Where such a risk is identified, the Head of School should always take the option of appointing a different Assessor.
3. The role of the Internal Assessor
The Internal Assessor is appointed to:
ensure that the formal Progression Review is independent, robust, fair and unbiased;
identify whether the PGR is making sufficient progress against the published criteria , or not, and if not be part of a process to remedy the situation;
For more information about assessment criteria for Progression Reviews, please consult the following:
Assessment criteria for Progression Reviews
maintain and enhance the University’s reputation for academic excellence;
provide valuable feedback to PGRs to help them develop academically;
ensure that PGRs are receiving appropriate support that allows them to be successful in their research;
provide an independent recommendation on PGR progression through engagement with the review process.
The Internal Assessor can, under appropriate circumstances, also act as the Internal Examiner for the PGR, but is not required to do so. In order to act in this capacity, they must fulfil all the requirements for an External Examiner, particularly those relating to appropriate expertise in the field/discipline. If an Internal Assessor, supervisors or School feels that the monitoring of the PGR’s progression results in any conflict of interest, or lack of impartiality that would interfere with an impartial examination of the thesis, the Internal Assessor should not act as the Internal Examiner.
4.
Responsibilities of the Internal Assessor
The Internal Assessor should:
initiate the arrangements for each Progression Review (at all stages) and agree a date, time and place for a meeting with the PGR, preferably 3 months prior to the date to ensure adequate preparation time;
The Office of the Independent Adjudicator requires that the PGR not be responsible for the organisation of their own assessment.
provide an agenda for the meeting to the PGR at least 1 week before the meeting, and explain how the meeting will be conducted at the start, to ensure the PGR knows what to expect;
ensure that the Progression Review (at all stages) is conducted in a timely fashion, including both the scrutiny of the presented report and other evidence and the progression meeting. This is to allow the evidence to be evaluated, and the recommendation for progression to be made in a timeframe that allows for reassessment, should this be required, by the anniversary of the PGRs original date of registration;
be made aware of any extenuating circumstances that need to be taken into consideration with respect to the formal Progression Review, and plan the timing accordingly;
read, take account of and evaluate the PGR’s progress using the information in the review documentation (including supervisory meeting notes, training records, the written report, research plan and accommodations), and assess progress against the published stage-specific criteria;
For more information about assessment criteria for Progression Reviews, please consult the following:
Assessment criteria for Progression Reviews
meet with the PGR and discuss the information in the report and other information, and assess progress against the published stage-specific criteria;
provide supportive and constructive feedback in the meeting, and in the report form, based on the assessment criteria;
provide feedback to relevant individuals if any concerns arise in connection with safety or well-being as a result of the discussions;
provide a fair and constructive independent report on PGR progression to the Head of School in a timely manner;
agree a joint recommendation with the supervisors as to whether the PGR should progress or not to the next stage of study;
and, if the joint recommendation requires re-assessment of PGR progression,
engage with the re-assessment of the PGR’s progression, contributing to the information provided to the PGR on the expectations and requirements for improvement and a re-assessment meeting;
provide, with the supervisors, the timeframe in which the PGR will need to show improvement, the objectives and milestones to demonstrate the required improvement, and the criteria against which this will be assessed;
agree the date of reassessment with the supervisors and PGR as soon as possible after the recommendation for re-assessment is made.
Feedback on the Progression Review provided to the PGR should be based on the criteria as applicable to the stage and field/discipline, and should include comment on the performance in the written report, the meeting, and any other information provided to the Internal Assessor, including the supervision record, related to the following:
the key achievements to date in the PGR's research progress, training and development, and required qualities and skills;
the degree of existing knowledge and understanding in the field or area of study, including understanding of relevant techniques and methodologies;
the degree to which the PGR’s plan has/will enable them to demonstrate the generation of new / original knowledge in their project;
whether the PGR can communicate effectively to different and appropriate audiences through different means;
whether the PGR can show effective and responsive planning for the focus and direction of their planned work and how they have honed this through pilot work, or if they have encountered problems. This should also include consideration of any necessary risk mitigation;
whether the PGR has attended and engaged with the required training for the School / programme.
that the PGR understands the ethical and legal frameworks applicable to their research, and the principles of research integrity required of all researchers.
5. Additional Information
Progression Review of Research Students
Regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) and Master of Philosophy (MPhil)
Responsibilities of the supervisor
PGR Progression Review - Process Map
Assessment criteria for Progression Reviews
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
05 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-role-and-appointment-of-examiners-for-research-degree-programmes.aspx
Header: Role and appointment of examiners for research degree programmes
Intro: This page sets out the role of Internal and External examiners for research degree programmes, including policy, criteria and appointment requirements. Its content is primarily directed at staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Role and appointment of examiners for research degree programmes - The University of NottinghamRole and appointment of examiners for research degree programmes
This page sets out the role of Internal and External examiners for research degree programmes, including policy, criteria and appointment requirements. Its content is primarily directed at staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Please be aware that during academic year 2020/21, the University introduced additional guidance in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. This page was previously affected by these arrangements and has been documented accordingly.
Further details can be found in the "Additional guidance in 2020/21 due to Covid-19" section below.
1. Policy
Every research thesis will be evaluated by Examiners who have appropriate academic qualifications, relevant expertise in the area of research being examined, and a suitable level of experience in examining research degree submissions.
Every member of academic staff of this University or another institution who is appointed to act as an Internal or External Examiner will receive information on the role of the Examiners.
2. Notification of intent to submit
Includes:
Submission information pack for postgraduate research students document
The submission by the student of a Notification of submission of thesis for examination of a research degree form which has been signed by the supervisor will trigger the procedure for nomination of Examiners.
Notification of submission of thesis for examination of a research degree
Notification of submission of thesis for examination of a research degree
The Notification form should be submitted at least three months in advance of the proposed submission of the thesis so that there is sufficient time to organise the appointment of Examiners before the thesis is submitted.
On receipt of the Notification form, the Head of School will nominate individuals whom they wish to act as Internal and External Examiners for the research submission. The Head of School may involve the supervisor(s) and candidate in discussions on suitable examiners, but will be responsible for making the final decision on the nomination.
Once discussions are completed, the nomination should be sent by the Head of School on the standard form to Registry and Academic Affairs, the Postgraduate Research Team or equivalent for approval by the University. There should be no contact between candidates and Examiners from the appointment of the Examiners up to the date of the viva voce examination, other than to make arrangements for the viva to take place.
3. Internal and External Examiners
Includes:
normal expectations; alternative arrangements; risks; duration of appointments
Normally each research submission will be examined by one Internal Examiner who is a member of staff of the academic School at Nottingham to which the student belongs (or, if appropriate, a member of staff of another academic School), and one External Examiner who is a member of staff of another academic institution.
Alternative arrangements (except that the examining board for any research submission must include at least one External Examiner) may be approved. For example, it is possible that in a small academic School there is no member of staff (apart from the supervisor who, of course, is disqualified from acting as an Examiner) with the expertise to act as Internal Examiner in the research area. The Head of School may reccomend that the submission be examined by two External Examiners, both of whom meet the published criteria for appointment, with a member of the internal staff acting as a co-ordinator of the examination proceedings.
The role of the coordinator will be to organise and operate the administrative arrangements for examination of the student's thesis and to facilitate the smooth-running of the viva voce examination.
One of the two External Examiners should be identified as the chair of the viva voce proceedings.
Any cases where an individual examiner did not meet the published criteria for appointment should be considered by the Quality and Standards Committee.
Where a candidate has a contract of employment with the University of Nottingham, Schools should consider whether the appointment of an Internal Examiner would risk the introduction of the perception of bias into the examination process. Where such a risk is identified, Schools should always take the option of appointing two External Examiners.
The examiner appointments will last for the duration of the examination process, including re-submissions where this is the outcome of the first examination, unless exceptional circumstances arise.
4. Role of examiners
Includes:
overview; submission of independent report
The role of the Examiners is to consider whether the information, arguments and results of the student's research work as presented in the thesis and as defended in the viva voce examination (if appropriate) meet the academic standards relevant to the degree.
The Examiners are required to submit independent reports on the thesis, a joint report on the viva voce examination (if a viva voce examination is required by the regulations), and a joint recommendation regarding the award of the degree.
For more information about viva voce examinations, please consult the following:
Viva voce examinations
5. Role of the Internal Examiner
Includes:
participation in viva voce examination; student defence of work; responsibilities
The Internal Examiner must read the student's thesis and participate in the viva voce examination, and come to a view as to whether the student's research work and knowledge meet the standard which would normally be expected of a student in the School submitting for that degree, and the University's criteria for the award of the degree.
They will receive the PDF version of the examination copy of the thesis and where appropriate share this with the External Examiner, subject to the agreement of the supervisor(s).
In addition they should act as the facilitator of the administrative arrangements for the examination of the thesis and of the viva voce examination, including ensuring that any reasonable adjustments required for disabled students, including autistic spectrum conditions, disabilities, mental health difficulties, long-term health conditions, or specific learning differences are made. They should remind the External Examiner of the need to submit their independent report at least 3 working days before the viva, and also ensure that their own report is submitted at this time.  Independent reports should not be shared before submission.
They should seek to ensure that, during the viva voce examination, the student is given a fair opportunity to defend their work and that the External Examiner is aware of any extenuating circumstances which have a bearing on the student's case. Following a viva voce examination, the student should be given immediate informal feedback on the outcome of the examination and should be advised that more formal details will be transmitted later in writing. The Internal Examiner should also write to the student formally conveying the joint views of the Examiners on the submission, describing in detail the academic and presentational reasons for their recommendation, and (if appropriate) providing clear advice about what matters should be addressed in any resubmission.
For more information about viva voce examinations, please consult the following:
Viva voce examinations
If corrections have been recommended, the Internal Examiner will be responsible for checking these and confirming with Registry and Academic Affairs that these have been completed.
The Internal Examiner will be responsible for confirming that the final electronically submitted version of the work is that which has been approved by the Examiners if no corrections were needed after examination.
6. Criteria for appointing Internal Examiner
Includes:
responsibility of Head of School; eligibility
The Head of School should ensure that the person nominated to act as Internal Examiner is a research-active member of the academic staff of the University who has the appropriate expertise in the student's research area. If Schools wish to recommend nominees who do not satisfy this criterion, this should be highlighted in the nomination form and a case provided for consideration by the Quality and Standards Committee (QSC).
Internal Assessors who have been involved in the Progression Reviews may act as Internal Examiner if deemed appropriate by all parties, but it is not an expectation that they do so.
Post-doctoral staff, Research Fellows below level 5, holders of honorary appointments who do not receive remuneration, Emeritus Professors, staff who do not hold a doctorate themselves and retired academic staff should not be permitted to act as Internal Examiners.
7. Academic Staff in their first appointment
Includes:
recommendation of joint supervision; application to Quality and Standards Committee for permission
An academic member of staff in their first appointment at the University of Nottingham can be permitted to act as sole Internal Examiner on their first postgraduate research degree examination occasion, as long as they have previous UK doctoral or MPhil PGR examining experience. Where internal examiner has no previous UK experience, an Independent Chair should be appointed who should monitor and report on their conduct in the joint report.
However, Heads of Schools may apply to the Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) for permission to allow such a member of academic staff to act as the sole Internal Examiner without an independent Chair, if a good case can be made that the member of staff's educational and professional background makes it appropriate for them to act in this capacity. For more information about QSC, please consult the following:
Quality and Standards Committee
8. Role of the External Examiner
Includes:
requirements; leading viva voce examination; judging standards
The External Examiner must read the student's thesis and should lead the viva voce examination.
The External Examiner must, in particular, come to a view as to whether the student's research work and knowledge are of a standard which are comparable to those of students being examined at other institutions for the same degree.
9. Appointment of External Examiners
Includes:
members of staff from outside institutions; nominating individuals from other suitable environments; eligibility; approval of nominations
Members of staff from outside institutions whom Schools wish to nominate to act as External Examiners for Nottingham research degrees should be research-active Professors, Readers, Lecturers or other teachers of their institution (or of equivalent status).
However, it will be appropriate in some cases for Schools to nominate individuals from other suitable environments provided that those individuals are experts in the field of the student's topic of research and hold a professional status which is equivalent to a University Professor, Reader, Lecturer or teacher.
In order to assess the eligibility of any individual to act as External Examiner who has not previously acted in this capacity for the University of Nottingham, the Head of School should obtain a brief Curriculum Vitae which should be forwarded to Registry and Academic Affairs, Postgraduate Research Team or equivalent, with the nomination on the standard form. They will retain the Curriculum Vitae for future reference.
Nominations for Examiners will be approved by the University and Registry and Academic Affairs, the Postgraduate Research Team or equivalent, which will write to the External Examiners informing them of the terms and conditions of their appointment and their role as Examiners. The letter will include a request that the Examiner consider whether a potential conflict(s) of interest is likely to occur as a result of examining a candidate's thesis and if so, that they disclose it to the University.
10. Ineligible categories for External Examiner
Includes:
members of staff from other institutions; emeritus professors; retired academic staff
A member of staff of another institution should not be invited to act as an External Examiner if they are a University of Nottingham graduate who graduated within the last three years. Also, ex-members of staff of Nottingham who left the University less than three years previously and holders of honorary appointments for which remuneration is given at the University of Nottingham should not be permitted to act as External Examiners.
Emeritus Professors and academic staff who have been retired for more than three years should not be permitted to act as External Examiners unless it can be demonstrated that they continue to be research active.
11. Disagreement between Examiners
Includes:
joint decisions; when particular weight should be given
In the event of a disagreement on the appropriate outcome of a research degree examination between the Internal and External Examiner, the matter should be resolved by the Examiners on the basis of detailed argument about the specific academic points arising from the examination, and a joint decision should be reached.
In this circumstance particular weight should be given to the views of the External Examiner.
Where there are two External Examiners particular weight should be given to the chair.
12. Role of the supervisor
Includes:
scope; attendance; availability for viva voce examination
Members of the supervisory team may not act as Examiners for the student's submission.
The supervisor(s) may not normally attend the viva voce examination except with the agreement of the External Examiner, in which case they may attend as an observer only or where required under the terms of an approved collaborative doctorate programme, in which case they may contribute questions but may not participate in making the Examiners' recommendation.
However, it is recommended that at least one member of the supervisory team, preferably the primary supervisor, should be available in the School at the time of the viva voce examination in case the Examiners feel that their presence at the report of the outcome of the viva voce is required (for example, to give support to the student in the event of major corrections or a referral).
13. Role of the Head of School
Includes:
instructions for examiners
The Head of School must approve the appointment of the Examiners.
Instructions for examiners:
MRes and MA/MSc by research examination information
MPhil examination guidance
PhD-level examinations guidance
Forms
Includes:
nomination of examiners
Forms:
Nomination of examiners form (PGR)
Nomination of examiners form (PGR)
Nomination of examiners form (PGR)
Additional guidance in 2020/21 due to Covid-19
Please be aware that the following guidance was developed and applied during academic year 2020/21 in response to the coronavirus pandemic. This additional information was developed for examiners of doctoral candidates and should be read in conjunction with all other content on this page:
Covid-19 and doctoral examinations – additional guidance for examiners for doctoral candidates at the University of Nottingham
This guidance appeared alongside the University's Exceptional Regulations that were developed and applied in response to the coronavirus pandemic.
For more information about the Exceptional Regulations as a whole, please consult the following:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - 2019/20 - 2020/21
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
03 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-dclinpsy-sept19.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) from September 2019
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) from September 2019. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) from September 2019 - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) from September 2019
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) from September 2019. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1. Admission requirements
1.1
A candidate for the Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) degree must:
(a)
Be a graduate of this or any other approved university holding a Bachelor’s degree in Psychology or an equivalent subject recognised by the British Psychological Society (BPS) as conferring Graduate Basis for Chartership. This will normally be a first or upper second class honours but candidates with a lower second-class honours degree or other equivalent qualification may be considered if they have a postgraduate degree at Masters level or higher. The only entry to the programme is at the beginning of Year 1. There is no provision for advanced entry based on Recognition of Other Learning (ROL) or Recognition of Experiential Learning (ROEL).
(b)
Meet the essential characteristics of the NHS person specification for a Clinical Psychologist in Training and course specification.
(c)
Have the personal and intellectual resources to pursue a challenging and demanding research oriented programme.
(d)
Have previous supervised practical experience relevant to clinical training.
(e)
The programme covers a wide geographical area and teaching is provided at both the University of Nottingham (UoN) and the University of Lincoln (UoL) (the universities)
.
It is therefore a requirement that students are able to make their own personal arrangements to travel to and from the universities and their respective work placements. Students should expect to have to travel for at least 3 hours a day (e.g. between universities and from base to placement).
(f)
Candidates will be subject to an interview process and must complete Disclosure and Barring Scheme checks and health checks for acceptability as an NHS employee.
(g)
Applicants whose first language is not English and who have not previously studied in Higher Education in English, must as a minimum, have one of the following:
A British Council IELTS overall minimum score of 7.5 with no element below 7.0, achieved no more than 2 years prior to admission.
Pearson Test of English Academic 73 (minimum 67).
CELE pre-sessional course final assessment of “Pass with High Distinction”
2. Course of study
2.1
A candidate for the degree of DClinPsy must have pursued at one of the universities a full-time course of study comprising a taught component, clinical placements and one research project. Completion of the DClinPsy programme requires a minimum of 3 years of full-time supervised study.
2.2
The universities’ Regulations for Taught Masters Degrees, Postgraduate Diploma and Postgraduate Certificate courses shall apply with regard to satisfactory progression on the taught element of the degree. All modules on the programme are compulsory and non-compensatable. For more information, please consult the following:
Postgraduate Taught study regulations
University of Lincoln - Undergraduate regulations
2.3
Students on the DClinPsy programme are called ‘trainees’. Each trainee on the programme is enrolled at both the University of Lincoln and the University of Nottingham, and on successful completion shall be awarded the degree by one or other of the universities.
2.4
The University of Nottingham’s Fitness to Practise procedures, as set out at Annex C, shall apply to all trainees. Annexes B, D, E, F and G specify which of the two universities’ regulations shall be followed in respect of Extenuating Circumstances; Student Complaints; Academic Offences (UoL)/Misconduct (UoN); Academic Appeals; and Student Conduct and Discipline
.
3. Programme structure
3.1
Structure of Awards
The standard modules in the DClinPsy award are multiples of 5 credit points, as appropriate to the level of study, with 1 credit point equating to 10 notional learning hours. The modules will be at Master (M) or Doctoral (D) level according to the table below:
Table of award, tariff and notional learning hours
Award
Tariff (level)
Notional Learning Hours
The Doctorate in Clinical Psychology
540 (M/D)
5,400
Masters Degree in Applied Psychology (available as an exit award only)
180 (M/D) These credits contribute towards the credits for the award of the doctorate
1,800
3.1
The
programme
shall
be
structured
according
to
the
following
principles:
(a)
180 credits of taught
provision
(b)
80 credits of placement/taught
provision
(c)
280 credits of research project provision resulting in production of Research Project Portfolio (maximum 45,000 words plus appendices,
etc)
(d)
180 credits / 6 modules designated as taught and 280 credits / 3 modules designated as research.
(e)
100 credits at Level 7; the remaining 440 credits being at Level 8.
A description of the programme structure is at Annex A
5. Assessment
4.1
Compensation cannot be offered for failure of any component within a module.
4.2
All placement assessments are graded on a pass or fail basis.
4.3
Where no formal extension has been agreed, a late submission will be deemed a failed submission.
4.4
All placements are assessed by the trainee’s supervisor, Clinical Tutor and, where appropriate, Co-Director (Clinical Practice). Supervisor assessments for taught placements are regarded as recommendations to the Programme Directors with the final decision to pass or fail the placement made by the Board of Examiners.
5. Reassessment opportunities
5.1
Trainees who have failed modules shall be offered one opportunity to be reassessed with the following
exceptions:
5.1.1
Taught Modules
Taught modules assessed by a Practice Based Learning Assessment (PBL): Only one PBL module may be reassessed. If a trainee fails one component or more of a second PBL module assessed by a PBL assessment, no further reassessment will be allowed and the trainee will not be permitted to continue on the
programme.
5.1.2
Placement
Modules
Placements are assessed by a combination of case studies (written and oral) and clinical assessments. Trainees will be permitted one opportunity to resit one placement module. If a trainee fails one component or more of a second placement module, no further reassessment will be permitted and the trainee will not be permitted to continue on the programme.
(a)
Trainees who require funding to re-sit a placement failed by the clinical assessment will need the agreement of
NHS
Commissioners to continue funding an extension of the trainee’s employment and studies during the course of the three-year programme (see
below).
(b)
Where a trainee requires an extension of the training contract, the University may be asked to confirm that the trainee is expected to satisfactorily complete and is suitable to work as a registered Clinical Psychologist, adhering to the expectations of
NHS
employment
practice.
6. Boards of examiners
6.1
The Board of Examiners shall have responsibility for assessment in respect of the taught elements of the programme (see programme structure in Annex A) which will feed into the considerations of the Programme Research Annual Review (RAR) panel which shall have responsibility for assessment of the research elements of the programme and for confirming a student’s entitlement to progression.
6.2
Determination of a student’s entitlement to conferment of the final award shall be the responsibility of the Board of Examiners
.
6.3
All meetings of the Board of Examiners are deemed to be held jointly between the universities and no restrictions on the exchange of information shall apply.
6.4
In recognition of the link between academic progression and employment status, the programme may communicate directly with trainees who are in danger of programme failure and thereby of losing their employment. The Programme Directors will have responsibility for informing trainees’ NHS employers of concerns about trainees’ employment status and programme failure.
7. Progression
Includes: taught components; research components
7.1 Taught components
7.1.1
In order to progress through subsequent years, trainees shall have passed all the required elements of the taught modules at each stage of the programme.
7.2 Research components
7.1.1
Each candidate will have at least two academic supervisors for the Research Modules that comprise the Research Project Portfolio.
7.1.2
Progress records shall be confirmed by Programme Research Annual Review (RAR) panels at least annually and make recommendations to the Board of Examiners.
7.2.3
Upon receipt of the progress record, the trainee transcript and any additional information that it has required, the RAR panel can recommend to the Board of Examiners that:
(a)
the enrolment of the trainee shall continue or
(b)
the enrolment of the trainee shall continue and the student must be reassessed in failed elements of the annual review
(c)
the trainee’s course of studies be terminated and the award of the MSc in Applied Psychology be considered or
(d)
the trainee’s course of studies be terminated and no award be made
8. Submission of research project portfolio and examination
8.1
The candidate shall submit a Research Project Portfolio for examination, which shall comprise of a draft journal paper, an extended paper (including an updated literature review and extended methods, analysis, results and discussion sections), a critical reflection and a poster.
8.2
The Research Project Portfolio shall be of a standard to indicate the creation and interpretation of new knowledge through original research, which extends the forefront of the discipline. The work reported shall be of a quality to satisfy peer review and merit publication in a scientific journal.
8.3
Candidates will submit their Research Project Portfolios in February of their third year of training, to be examined viva voce by May that year. Candidates who miss the February deadline can only next submit their portfolio in June, to have their viva voce examination in September. Precise dates will be published at the beginning of each academic year. Candidates who submit after June will have their viva voce examination conducted in line with the timeframes specified in university regulations.
9. Outcomes of portfolio examination
9.1
The Examiners may recommend the following outcomes of examination for candidates:
Pass the research component of the degree
Pass the research component of the degree subject to minor corrections within one month
Pass the research component of the degree subject to minor amendments to be completed within three months
Require the candidate to attend for a second viva voce examination and resubmit the same portfolio (which may be subject to minor amendments to be completed within three months)
Require the candidate to resubmit the portfolio in a revised form within twelve months with or without attending a second viva voce examination
Fail the research component of the degree with no further opportunity for resubmission.
10. Doctoral award
1.1
The degree of DClinPsy will be conferred on candidates who:
a)
have successfully completed the taught component of the programme, and
b)
have satisfied the Examiners as to the standard of the Research Project Portfolio, and
c)
have achieved all standards of proficiency required by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and core competencies required by the BPS, and
d)
have supplied all raw data for the research portfolio to the school administrators, and
e)
have obtained confirmation from the primary research supervisor that they have prepared a submission ready journal paper, and
f)
are not subject to any Fitness to Practise Proceedings.
1.2
The DClinPsy degree is awarded as a simple Pass, without classification or distinction/merit categories.
11. Award of Masters in Applied Psychology
11.1
A candidate for the degree of DClinPsy who achieves less than 540 but 180 or more credits may be eligible for the award of Master of Science Degree in Applied Psychology. To be awarded this MSc trainees must have successfully completed a total of 180 Level (M, D) credits with at least 60 credits from research modules.
11.2
There is no provision for the award of a Postgraduate Certificate or Postgraduate Diploma.
Annex A
Table of module details
Year
Module Acronym
Title of Module
Level
Semester
Credits
Module Type
1
PRS
Professional Skills
7
1
40
Academic
ICI
Individual Client Interventions
7
1 & 2
40
Academic
FPA
Foundation Placement A: (placement activity)
7
1
Essential placement activity not credit rated
Placement
FPB
Foundation Placement B: (Placement activity and case study)
7
2
Essential placement activity not credit rated
Case study 20 credits
Placement
ERA
Research Ethics & Design
8
1
80
Research
Research Systematic Literature Review
2
2
LSD
Lifespan Development
8
1
20
Academic
ISO
Integration & Specialist Options
8
2
40
Academic
SYP
Second Year Placement – A
8
1
Essential placement activity not credit rated
Case study 20 credits
Placement
Second Year Placement – B
8
2
Placement
BRM
Data collection & analysis, APEs
8
1 & 2
100
Research
3
BRP
Research Portfolio and Viva
8
1 & 2
100
Research
FGI
Families, Groups & Indirect Work
8
1
20
Academic
SOS
Systems and Organisations
8
2
20
Academic
TYP
Third Year Placement - Specialist
8
1 or 2
Essential placement activity not credit rated
Two case studies 40 credits
Placement
Third Year Placement - Final
8
1 or 2
Placement
Annex B - Extenuating circumstances
The Extenuating Circumstances regulations of the University of Lincoln shall apply to this programme. These regulations can be accessed via:
University of Lincoln - Extenuating Circumstances
Extensions and Extenuating Circumstances Policy
As Health Service professional and full-time NHS employees, trainees have an obligation to be aware of any impairment to their fitness to work. This extends to academic work and the completion of assessments and assignments. If the submission of any assignment is likely to be adversely affected through illness or other significant personal circumstances outside their control, trainees must ask for an extension in advance of the submission date using the Extension Request Form.
Extensions of up to two weeks can be agreed by the module convenor/module co- ordinator.
Extensions of more than two weeks require the approval of the Co-director (Practice Learning) for Clinical Practice Reports or of the Co-director (Academic and Research) for all other assignments.
Trainees who require a prolonged extension would normally be required to interrupt their studies.
Where trainees are aware of a disability or long-term medical condition, or other circumstances that are expected to have an impact on their performance in assessment, they should make their Personal Tutor aware of their disability or long-term medical condition at the earliest possible opportunity so that appropriate arrangements can be put in place.
Where trainees are aware of circumstances beyond their control that might adversely affect the submission of their Research Project Portfolio, they should inform their academic supervisor at the earliest opportunity, so that alternative hand-in dates can be agreed.
Claims for extenuating circumstances after the submission date for an assignment has passed would normally raise a concern about the trainee’s fitness to practise, as they should have been aware of their impaired performance and requested an extension. In such a case, the module convenor / module co-ordinator would normally complete a Concern Form (see Fitness to Practise Procedure). Trainees who wish claim extenuating circumstances should complete and sign the relevant form and submit it to the Extenuating Circumstances Panel of the University of Lincoln.
The Extenuating Circumstances Panel will consider the claim and supporting documentation at their next regular meeting and determine whether extenuating circumstances obtain and whether the trainee’s reasons for not having sought an extension are valid. The Extenuating Circumstances Panel will communicate its decision to the Chair of the Trent DClinPsy Board of Examiners. The decision whether to allow a resubmission of an assignment because of extenuating circumstances rests with the Board of Examiners.
Annex C - Fitness to practise
The Fitness to Practise regulations of the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences at the University of Nottingham shall apply to this programme, subject to the following adjustments:
The term ‘trainee’ shall be used throughout in preference to that of ‘student’.
Concerns that a trainee may not be fit to practise Clinical Psychology shall be made to the Programme Co-Director at the trainee’s degree-awarding university.
References to ‘the head of studies’ shall be read as referring to the relevant Programme Co-Director.
In the section headed ‘Investigations’, the reference to “the University’s Occupational Health Service” shall be read as referring to the trainee’s employer’s Occupational Health Service.
These regulations can be accessed via:
Registration, attendance and study
The current form of the regulations, as they apply to the programme are as follows: Fitness to Practise Procedure
1.   Initiation of the Procedure
1.1.
Any concerns that a trainee may have acted in such a way or may suffer from a health problem which may render that trainee a person not fit to be admitted to and practise Clinical Psychology should be disclosed to the Programme Co- Director at the trainee’s degree awarding university.
1.2.
The disclosure should normally be made in writing using the concern form. In cases where the initial disclosure is not in the concern form format e.g. notification of criminal conviction, then the relevant Co-director should ensure that a concern form containing the disclosure is completed. The person making the disclosure must identify themselves; disclosures which are raised anonymously will not normally be considered. In exceptional circumstances the discloser’s identity may be permitted to remain confidential.
1.3.
The raising of a concern form does not usually indicate a fitness to practise issue. However, the existence of multiple concern forms may show a pattern which does indicate a fitness to practise issue. Therefore on the receipt of an individual concern form which on its own does not raise a fitness to practise issue the Co- directors, should jointly review whether other concern forms have been raised, which when all considered together raise issues regarding the trainee’s fitness to practise, e.g. professional behaviour.
1.4.
Where there are concerns that are serious then a trainee may be excluded from clinical placements by their Clinical Tutor on advice of the Co-directors. Some examples of a serious concern would include, but not as an exclusive list, situations where:
patients may be placed at risk or;
the profession might be brought into disrepute by the public knowing that the trainee remained in a clinical environment or;
that a trainee’s conduct was deemed to be disruptive to the delivery of clinical care or clinical teaching  in a partner, usually NHS, organisation.
Concerns may be such that trainees can be suspended from their course with immediate effect by the Dean or by the head of studies. If this decision is based on a concern related to discipline or health and safety then appropriate procedures as set out within the Code of Discipline for Students and the Quality Manual should be followed.
If trainees are allowed to return from suspension, they will be expected to comply with any conditions decided by the School or imposed as part of the outcome of any other procedure.
1.5.
A trainee will not be allowed to graduate from either University if they are subject to a fitness to practise investigation or hearing which has not been completed.
2.
Investigations
2.1.
On receipt of a disclosure which gives rise to a fitness to practise concern, the relevant Co-director shall promptly, and normally within 5 working days, arrange for the matter to be investigated and shall notify the trainee of the following:
The basis of the concerns and any allegations against them.
The identity of the investigating
officer.
Any limitations or conditions placed upon the continuance of studies or supervised practice during the period of the
investigation.
2.2
The trainee can register an objection to the appointment of the investigating officer on the basis of a lack of impartiality. Such an objection needs to the relevant Co-director within 5 working days. Examples would include where the investigating officer has initially raised the concern e.g. probity issues, or where the investigating officer has had interaction with the trainee on an unrelated contentious issue. If this objection is upheld a new investigating officer should be appointed.
2.3
The investigating officer may request members of staff connected with the
case to provide written comments on the trainee’s conduct and/or health, explaining why there is concern as to fitness to practise. Factual information about the trainee’s professional progress on the course and any other relevant documentation should also be
provided.
2.4.
The investigating officer shall interview relevant individuals including the trainee themselves. At such interviews the investigating officer shall be accompanied by an assistant who shall prepare a written note of the
interview
2.5.
The investigating officer should ensure that the trainee is advised of appropriate pastoral support mechanisms within their University and Trainees’
Union.
2.6.
The trainee is entitled to have a person of their choosing attend the interview with them in order to support them at the meeting. The trainee should
confirm the name and status of the person accompanying them in writing to the Investigating Officer in advance of the interview. The person supporting the trainee is not attending the interview as an advocate or character witness.
2.7.
The trainee may be required to attend their employer’s Occupational Health Service in order that advice on his or her fitness to practise on medical grounds may be sought. In cases where there is evidence of recurring health problems or with addictive behaviours, Occupational health referral is
required.
2.8.
Save in exceptional circumstances, the investigating officer shall, no later than 15 working days after the referral by the Co-directors, make a written report of the results of the investigation to the Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences at The University of Nottingham detailing all evidence obtained. From this point onwards all further stages of the Fitness to Practise Procedure are handled by the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences at The University of Nottingham.
3.  Referral to Fitness to Practise
Committee
3.1
Promptly on receipt of the report from the investigating officer, and in any event within 5 working days, the Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences shall consult the Dean of the Faculty who will determine, in the light of the seriousness of the matter and the strength of the evidence, whether the case should be referred to the Fitness to Practise
Committee.
3.2
The Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences will notify the trainee in writing of the
following.
The outcome of the investigation and the Dean’s
decision.
Whether
the
matter
is
to
be
referred
to
the
Fitness
to
Practise
Committee together with full details of the procedures to be
adopted.
The imposition of any conditions/limitations placed on the trainee’s
studies.
3.3
In the event that the Fitness to Practise Committee is to be convened, the Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences will notify the trainee
of the identity of the Committee members and the date of the proposed meeting of the Committee and make available to him/her, all of the evidence detailed in the investigating officer’s
report.
3.4
The trainee shall be allowed at least 15 working days in which to prepare his/her case. All information on which the trainee intends to rely must be received by the FTP Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, who will then distribute this information to the members of the Fitness to Practise Committee and the Investigating Officer, at least 5 working days before the date set for the meeting of the
Committee.
3.5
In exceptional circumstances the Dean may determine that a warning should be issued to the trainee without a Fitness to Practise Committee hearing as the means of disposal of the FTP procedure, according to section 7 (below). The usual example of when this would be considered is when a criminal conviction or caution has been admitted. This disposal shall only be considered when the following four conditions are
met:
With the agreement of the trainee, confirmed in writing to the FTP Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine & Health
Science
When the trainee fully admits to the allegation upon which a concern has been based. This admission would be part of the evidence provided by the investigating officer
The trainee demonstrates insight into the nature of the concern and expresses remorse as specified in the evidence provided by the investigating officer
When the Dean is satisfied that the nature of the concern does not raise the possibility
of
another
outcome
beyond
a
warning
as
specified
in
section
7
(below)
4.
Attendance at the
Meeting
4.1
The trainee will be required to attend the meeting in person.If the trainee fails to attend without reasonable explanation, the Committee will consider the case in the trainee’s absence. The Chair will have discretion as to what constitutes a ‘reasonable
explanation’.
4.2
The University’s case will be presented by the investigating officer or his or her nominee.
4.3
At the discretion of the Chair, the Committee may also call upon other persons (whether or not a current member of the University) to provide advice on specific aspects of the case in writing or in
person.
4.4
The trainee is entitled to have a person of their choosing attend the hearing with them (referred to here as "the friend"), and is permitted to have the person of their choosing speak on their behalf. The trainee should confirm the name and status of the person accompanying them in writing to the Secretary no less than four working days before the
hearing.
5.  Composition of the
Committee
5.1
The Committee will comprise as a minimum the Chair (a senior member of the academic staff from outside the professional discipline of the trainee)
and
two members. At least one member should be a clinically active member of the
same professional discipline as the trainee. The Committee will be serviced by a Secretary who is not a member but will be present throughout the
proceedings.
5.2
Anyone who is asked to be a member of the Committee, who has been personally involved in the trainee's case at any prior stage needs to inform the Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences of this. This person will then not be able to be a member of the Committee and another member will need to be appointed.
6.   Procedure for the conduct of the meeting
This section is a guide to the conduct of the meeting itself. The Chair has discretion to vary these arrangements as they think fit.
6.1
Prior to the meeting the Secretary to the Committee will ensure the trainee has copies of all documents circulated to members of the Committee and is aware of the procedures to be
followed.
6.2
The Chair will ask if any member has been personally involved in the trainee's case at any prior stage and, if so, will ask them to withdraw from the
meeting.
6.3
The
trainee,
the
friend
(if
attending)
and
staff
will
then
join
the
Committee.
6.4
The
Chair
will
introduce
by
name
and explain
the
functions
of
the
members
of
the Committee, the staff, and any others
present.
6.5
The Chair will explain the powers of the Committee, as set out in
section7.
6.6
The Chair will invite the investigating officer (or nominee) to make an opening statement and then invite the Committee to ask questions. Other staff attending will be offered the same opportunity to make a statement and may be asked questions.
6.7
The Chair will invite the trainee or the friend to make a statement. The Chair will explain that the Committee will wish to hear directly from the trainee in their own words.
6.8
Members of the Committee will be invited to question the
trainee.
6.9
The Chair will invite any other person(s) called upon by the Chair to attend the meeting (as referred to in section 4.3), to make a brief statement,
and
will then invite the Committee to ask
questions.
6.10
At each stage the Chair has discretion to allow reciprocal questioning by the various
parties.
6.11
Once the Chair is satisfied that the Committee has completed their questioning and the trainee and staff have had a full opportunity to convey information to the Committee, both the trainee and members of staff will
withdraw.
6.12
The Committee will then discuss the
case.
6.13
If for any reason the Committee requires further clarification of any aspect of the case from either the trainee or staff members they must be all invited back into the meeting while the questioning takes place. When the Chair so determines they will then leave the meeting
again.
6.14
The Committee will make its decision on the basis of the balance of probabilities and shall be taken by a simple majority of the members present and voting. The Chair shall have a casting vote in the event of a
tie.
6.15
The decision, and any findings of fact, will be conveyed to the trainee and the other parties as soon as possible, and will in any event be conveyed to the trainee in writing within two working days of the decision being
reached.
7.  Powers of the Fitness to Practise
Committee
7.1
The
Committee,
following
consideration
of
the
case,
has
the
power
to:
a.
permit the trainee to continue with the course with no warning or sanction;
b
.
warn the trainee that there is evidence of misconduct but the trainee’s fitness to practise is not impaired to a point requiring any of the sanctions listed
below;
c.
impose a sanction. Beginning with the least severe, the sanctions
are:
i.
undertakings
ii.
conditions
iii.
suspension from the
course;
iv.
expulsion from the
course.
(Guidance on the imposition of these sanctions is offered in the GMC document
Medical trainees: professional behaviour and fitness to practise
(2007) and the RPSGB (Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain) document
Guidance on trainee fitness to practise procedures in schools of pharmacy
(2009)).
7.1
Where a trainee’s studies are terminated, assistance
will
be given to the trainee to transfer to an alternative course of study which does not provide a license to practise, if this is considered
appropriate.
7.2
Where it proves impossible to continue to offer the course because the trainee is deemed incapable on non-academic grounds (such as health) of completing it and will not therefore be fit to practise, every effort will be made to offer an appropriate alternative course of
study.
8.  Appeals
8.1
The trainee may appeal to the University’s Academic Appeals Committee
against any warning or sanction imposed by the Fitness to Practise
Committee.
8.2
The policy and procedure for an appeal are set out in the Quality
Manual.
9.  Confidentiality
The personal data of trainees will be processed by the University in compliance with the Data Protection Act. However, it may be necessary to pass personal information to other organisations such as the NHS,
professional accrediting bodies or other institutes of higher education where there is a real issue about a trainee's fitness to practise and where this represents a risk to patients or members of the
public.
Annex D - Trainee complaints procedure
The investigation and determination of complaints shall follow the Complaints Procedures of the University directly responsible for the matters or persons or events complained of, and which has the authority to provide remedies where the complaints are upheld.
Where a complaint contains substantive elements relating to both universities, investigation and determination shall follow the Complaints Procedures of the trainee’s degree-awarding university, and the other university shall provide full co-operation.
These regulations can be accessed via:
University of Lincoln - Student Complaints
Concerns, complaints and appeals
Annex E - Academic offences
The Academic Offences Policy of the trainee’s degree awarding University shall apply to this programme. These regulations can be accessed via:
University of Lincoln - Academic Offences
Policy on academic misconduct
Annex F - Academic appeals
The Academic Appeals Policy of the trainee’s degree awarding University shall apply to this programme. These regulations can be accessed via:
University of Lincoln - Academic Reviews and Appeals
Policy on academic appeals
Annex G - Conduct and discipline policy
The Conduct and Discipline Policy of the trainee’s degree awarding University shall apply to this programme. These regulations can be accessed via:
University of Lincoln -Student Conduct and Discipline
Student Services - Regulations
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
21 March 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-dclinpsy-sept23.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) from September 2023 (2023 intake)
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) from September 2023 for its 2023 intake. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) from September 2023 (2023 intake) - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) from September 2023 (2023 intake)
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) from September 2023 for its 2023 intake. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
This document sets out the general principles and regulations that apply to the Trent Doctorate in Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) - a professional doctoral-training programme delivered jointly by the Universities of Lincoln and Nottingham and delivered in Partnership with NHS England (previously HEE). These Regulations supersede all previous Regulations for the DClinPsy (which are hereby revoked) and represent the primary regulatory framework for the DClinPsy programme. Where a policy, procedure, or process is not specified below, the regulations governing Professional Doctorates at the Universities of Lincoln and Nottingham shall apply.
1. Programme purpose, structure and awards
1.1
The DClinPsy is a three-year postgraduate doctoral training programme. Graduates from the DClinPsy training are able to register with the Health Care Professions Council (HCPC) as practitioner psychologists, can use the protected title Clinical Psychologist, and can gain Chartership with the British Psychological Society (BPS).
1.2
Students on the DClinPsy programme are called 'trainees'.
1.3
Trainees formally enrol with both Universities but are designated a base University at the point of their placement offer. Placement offers are dependent upon allocation of the trainee to a specific Healthcare Trust and trainees are made aware of their assigned Trust and base University prior to the point of enrolment.
1.4
Programme structure
The programme is structured according to the following principles:
180 credits of taught provision
90 credits of placement/taught provision
270 credits of research project provision comprising three research modules including the production of a Research Project Portfolio
1.5
Doctoral Award
1.5.1
Upon successful completion of the programme trainees will be awarded their degree from the base university and shall not be eligible for a degree from the other University with which they are enrolled.
1.5.2
The DClinPsy degree is awarded as a Pass.
1.5.3
The degree of DClinPsy will be conferred on trainees who have fulfilled all programme requirements.
2. Accreditation of prior learning
2.1
There is no Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL, APEL, Recognition of Other Learning) for entry to the programme.
3. Assessment and progression
3.1
There is no compensation between assessment elements or modules.
3.2
A late submission without an approved extension will be counted as a non-submission.
3.3
Taught Components
3.3.1
In order to progress to subsequent years, trainees shall have passed all elements of the taught modules at each stage of the programme.
3.3.2
If a trainee fails a taught assessment element, they will be offered a single in-year re-sit opportunity for that assessment element. Failure of a re-sit will result in programme failure.
3.3.3
Where students reach a progression point but have outstanding first-sit or resit opportunities, the Board of Examiners shall permit “proceed with conditions” to the next level of study pending completion of the outstanding elements. A Board decision on progression or withdrawal will be made at the next available Monthly Board.
3.4
Clinical Placements
3.4.1
A trainee is only entitled to a single resit opportunity against one failed clinical placement. Failure in a second clinical placement will result in programme failure.
3.4.2
Clinical placements may be assessed via single or multiple clinical placement modules. Where a placement is assessed by two modules, the first module constitutes a prerequisite for the second. Failing of the pre-requisite module constitutes a failure of the whole clinical placement.
3.4.3
A Trainee who fails the prerequisite clinical placement module and although they are not able to be assessed in the second module for that placement may continue to engage in the second element of this placement as part of their employment contract. This may be subject to Fitness to Practice Regulations.
3.4.4
Where a trainee has to re-sit a clinical placement, the Exam Board has the discretion to allow trainees to proceed to the next year and participate in the academic programme pending formal progression.
3.4.5
Where a trainee requires an extension to their training contract, which impacts upon the duration of study, the Board of Examiners can extend the duration of studies subject to confirmation of the trainee’s employment extension and accompanying conditions.
3.5
Research Components
3.5.1
Each trainee’s progress will be monitored and confirmed by the Research Annual Review (RAR) Panel who meet annually.
3.5.2
The RAR panel can recommend to the Board of Examiners either that:
3.5.2.1
the trainee can progress,
3.5.2.2
the trainee must be reassessed in failed elements but can proceed (continue with their studies),
3.5.2.3
the trainee’s course of studies be terminated.
3.5.3
If a trainee fails a research assessment element in the first two research modules, they will be offered an in-year re-sit opportunity for that assessment element. Failure of a re-sit will result in programme failure.
4. Research project portfolio
4.1
Trainees will be offered two submission points for their Research Project Portfolio. Trainees who submit their Research Project Portfolio in February of their third year of training will be examined by viva voce by May that year. Trainees who miss the February deadline can only next submit their portfolio in June, to have their viva voce examination in September. Precise dates will be published at the beginning of each academic year.
4.2
Trainees who are authorised to submit after June will have their viva voce examination conducted in line with the timeframes specified in university regulations.
4.3
The Examiners may recommend the following outcomes of examination for Trainees:
4.3.1
Pass the research component of the degree
4.3.2
Pass the research component of the degree subject to minor corrections within one month
4.3.3
Pass the research component of the degree subject to minor amendments to be completed within three months
4.3.4
Require the trainee to attend for a second viva voce examination and resubmit the same portfolio (which may be subject to minor amendments to be completed within three months)
4.3.5
Require the trainee to resubmit the portfolio in a revised form within twelve months with or without attending a second viva voce examination
4.3.6
Fail the research component of the degree with no further opportunity for resubmission
5. Reassessment
5.1
Resits will normally be submitted within 6 weeks of formal notification to the trainee of assessment failure.
5.2
All trainee resits and other progression issues will normally be dealt with at the next available monthly board regardless of its primary remit.
6. Board of examiners and exceptions to confidentiality
6.1
All meetings of the Board of Examiners are deemed to be held jointly between the two partner universities and no restrictions on the exchange of information shall apply.
6.2
In recognition of the link between academic progression and employment status, there are three exceptions to the confidentiality and communication of exam board results:
6.2.1
the programme may communicate directly with trainees who are in danger of programme failure and thereby of losing their employment.
6.2.2
The Programme Directors will have responsibility for informing trainees’ NHS employers of concerns about trainees’ employment status and programme failure.
6.2.3
The programme will normally communicate directly with the HCPC and other accrediting bodies directly following an Award Board, giving names of trainees who have successfully completed all components of the DClinPsy to allow immediate registration as Clinical Psychologists.
7. Academic offences and misconduct
7.1
The Academic Offences Policy of the trainee’s degree awarding University shall apply to this programme.
8. Extensions
8.1
Where leave in relation to sickness has been given by the NHS manager, an extension of equal duration for assignment deadlines will normally be given.
8.2
Where leave in relation to a period of approved Interruption to Studies has been given by the University of Nottingham or the University of Lincoln, an extension of equal duration for assignment deadlines will normally be given.
8.3
Notwithstanding the above, all trainees must submit extension requests to the University of Lincoln with supporting documentation, which may include a PASS/Learning Support plan.
9. Mitigating circumstances
9.1
All trainees are subject to Mitigating Circumstances process at the University of Lincoln.
9.2
Trainees who apply for Mitigating Circumstances that have affected, are affecting or will affect their Fitness to Practice have a duty to inform the programme team and their employing service as soon as possible.
10. Academic appeals
10.1
The Academic Appeals Policy of the trainee’s degree awarding University shall apply to this programme.
11. Trainee complaints procedure
11.1
The investigation and determination of complaints shall follow the Complaints Procedures of the University directly responsible for the matters or persons or events complained of, and which has the authority to provide remedies where the complaints are upheld.
11.2
Where a complaint contains substantive elements relating to both universities, investigation and determination shall follow the Complaints Procedures of the trainee’s degree-awarding university, and the other university shall provide full co-operation.
12. Conduct
12.1
The Conduct and Discipline Policy of the trainee’s degree awarding University shall apply to this programme.
13. Fitness to practice
13.1
All trainees are subject to the University of Nottingham’s Fitness to Practise procedures.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
26 January 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/legacy-exceptional-regulations-covid-19-unuk-1920.aspx
Header: Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNUK - 2019/20 to 2020/21
Intro: This page contains the exceptional regulations that were developed in response to the coronavirus pandemic. Its contents are only relevant to staff and students affected at the University of Nottingham UK (UNUK), during academic years 2019/20 and 2020/21.
Content:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNUK - 2019/20 to 2020/21 - The University of NottinghamExceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNUK - 2019/20 to 2020/21
This page contains the exceptional regulations that were developed in response to the coronavirus pandemic. Its contents are only relevant to staff and students affected at the University of Nottingham UK (UNUK), during academic years 2019/20 and 2020/21.During academic year 2019/20, the University introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. These were campus-specific and meant to be read in conjunction with any pre-existing content within the Quality Manual.
A number of these exceptional regulations were then adapted for further use in academic year 2020/21, to better reflect the situation at that time.
From the beginning of academic year 2021/22, the active application of all Covid-19 exceptional regulations at the University of Nottingham UK (UNUK) has now ceased, with the sole exception of those which cover admissions. These will remain active at UNUK until 30 September 2022.
Please note, however, that any outcomes from the application of the exceptional regulations during the 2019/20 and 2020/21 academic years will continue to be honoured and used in all future decisions regarding those affected.
More detailed information about all of these regulations can be found below, as well as within specific sections on all affected pages within the Quality Manual.
For more information about those regulations which remain applicable at UNUK in academic year 2021/22, please consult the following:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNUK
(current)
Exceptional Regulations actively applied during academic years 2019/20 and 2020/21
During academic year 2019/20, the University of Nottingham introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. In addition to those referenced below, this also included exceptional regulations for the following:
Extenuating Circumstances
‘Safety-net marks’
Covid incomplete module outcomes
PGT 60 Credit dissertation
Classification
Progression
MRes and Professional Doctorate
PGR UKRI (UNUK only)
Doctor of Philosophy and MPhil
External Examiners
The details of these particular exceptional regulations have all been collated separately, in the subsequent section, to better reflect their use during academic year 2019/20 alone.
However, it should be noted that any outcomes from the previous application of exceptional regulations (during academic year 2019/20) continued to be honoured and used in all future decision making concerning those affected.
Extenuating circumstances
The exceptional regulations for Extenuating circumstances and the University's guidance for Extenuating circumstances panels are contained in the following documents:
Covid-19 EC Exceptional Regulations - UNUK
Exceptional Guidance to Extenuating Circumstances Panels
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Extenuating circumstances procedure
Policy on circumstances affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments
Services for Students - Extenuating Circumstances
The thesis pending period (including Policy on extension)
Postgraduate research
The University's guidance for Viva Voce examinations, and the updated Submission Pack for Candidates are contained in the following documents:
University of Nottingham Viva Guidance (during Covid-19) - UNUK
Submission Pack for Candidates (during Covid-19)
Covid-19 PGR extensions to period of registered study Exceptional Regulations - UNUK
These documents should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Viva voce examinations
Research degree programmes
Viva voce examinations
Submission pack for candidates
Procedures for assessment
PGR students
The thesis pending period (including Policy on extension)
Policy on circumstances affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments
Research programme regulations
Fitness to Practise procedures
The exceptional Fitness to Practise Procedures for the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 Exceptional Fitness to Practise Procedures (MHS)
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Fitness to practise procedures
Personal tutoring
The exceptional regulations for Personal Tutoring are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 Personal tutoring Exceptional Regulations - UNUK
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Personal tutoring
Exceptional Regulations actively applied during academic year 2019/20 only
During academic year 2019/20, the University of Nottingham introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. In addition to those referenced below, this also included exceptional regulations for the following:
Extenuating Circumstances
PGR viva
Fitness to Practise (MHS)
Admissions
Personal Tutoring
PGR extensions
The details of these particular exceptional regulations have all been collated separately, within the previous section, to better reflect their continued periods of active application during academic year 2020/21 as well as 2019/20.
Assessment
The exceptional regulations for Assessment are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 Assessment Exceptional Regulations - UNUK
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Assessment overview and School responsibilities
Assessment regulations
Policy on e-assessment
PGT 60 Credit Dissertation / Project (masters students only)
The exceptional regulations for the PGT 60 Credit Dissertation / Project (for masters students only) are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 PGT 60 Credit Dissertation / Project Exceptional Regulations - UNUK
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Assessment overview and School responsibilities
Assessment regulations
Regulations for students admitted from September 2019 (PGT)
Undergraduate classification
The exceptional regulations for Undergraduate classification are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 UG Classification Exceptional Regulations - UNUK
Covid-19 additional information for graduating students
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Regulations from September 2019 (UG)
Undergraduate degree classification from September 2015
Postgraduate taught degree classification from September 2015 (for students starting awards from September 2016)
Degree Classification: entry to Qualifying year or Part I prior to September 2015
Postgraduate classification
The exceptional regulations for Postgraduate Taught classification are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 PGT Classification Exceptional Regulations - UNUK
Covid-19 Additional information for graduating students
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Regulations for students admitted from September 2019 (PGT)
Postgraduate taught degree classification from September 2015 (for students starting awards from September 2016)
Undergraduate degree classification from September 2015
Degree Classification: entry to Qualifying year or Part I prior to September 2015
Undergraduate progression
The exceptional regulations for Undergraduate progression are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 UG Progression Exceptional Regulations - UNUK
Additional information for progressing students
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Regulations from September 2019 (UG)
Regulations from September 2017 to September 2019 (UG)
Regulations from September 2015 to September 2017 (UG)
Regulations from September 2005 to September 2015 (UG)
Postgraduate progression
The exceptional regulations for Postgraduate progression are contained in the following document:
Covid PGT Progression Exceptional Regulations - UNUK
Additional information for progressing students
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Regulations for students admitted from September 2019 (PGT)
Regulations for students admitted from September 2017 and before September 2019 (PGT)
Regulations for students admitted from September 2016 and before September 2017 (PGT)
Regulations for students admitted from September 2012 and before September 2016 (PGT)
Regulations for students admitted from September 2006 and before September 2012 (PGT)
Postgraduate research
The exceptional regulations for Master of Research degrees (MRes) and Professional Doctorates, PGR Extensions (UKRI funded), the University's guidance for Viva Voce examinations, and the updated Submission Pack for Candidates are contained in the following documents:
Covid-19 MRes and Professional Doctorate Exceptional Regulations - UNUK
Covid-19 PGR Extensions (UKRI funded) Exceptional Regulations - UNUK
Covid-19 Exceptional Regulations for PGR Students - UNUK
These documents should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
MRes and Professional Doctorates
Research degree programmes
Research programme regulations
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) from September 2019
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes)
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2019
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2018
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research) from September 2018
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research) before September 2018
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research), two years full-time / four years part-time
Regulations for Subject Specific Masters by Research Degrees
PGR extensions (UKRI funded) and PGR students
The thesis pending period (including Policy on extension)
Policy on circumstances affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments
Research programme regulations
School Examination Boards and Examination Officers
The exceptional regulations for Examination Boards and Examination Officers are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 Examination Boards and Examination Officers
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
School Examination Board
School Examinations Officer Role
External Examiners
The exceptional regulations for the period of appointment for external examiners are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 External Examiner Extensions
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Appointment and responsibilities of External Examiners
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
12 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/admissions/pol-min-english-entry-requirements.aspx
Header: Policy on minimum English language entry requirements
Intro: This page contains the University's policy on the minimum English language requirements for entry to all award and non-award bearing studies. Its content is primarily aimed at prospective international students but may also be of interest to staff and current students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Policy on minimum English language entry requirements - The University of NottinghamPolicy on minimum English language entry requirements
This page contains the University's policy on the minimum English language requirements for entry to all award and non-award bearing studies. Its content is primarily aimed at prospective international students but may also be of interest to staff and current students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
This policy specifies minimum English language entry requirements for students applying to the University of Nottingham. Please note that these are minimum entry requirements and many subjects require higher entry qualifications.
These requirements apply to students undertaking both award and non-award bearing studies at the University.
Home students
Includes:
requirements; GCSE level
Home students are required to have an appropriate grade or score in an approved examination in English language before they can register on an academic programme.
This is normally Grade C or 4 in GCSE English Language or equivalent. Please check individual course listings as some courses may have higher GCSE requirements.
EU and international students
Includes:
International English Language Testing System (IELTS); Home Office list of recognised countries; recognised and equivalent qualifications; English language equivalencies document
EU and international students whose first language is not English are required to have an appropriate grade or score in an approved examination in English language (such as International English Language Testing System (IELTS)) before they can register on an academic programme. Students will also be deemed to have an acceptable English language qualification if they have either:
successfully completed the whole of their secondary education up to and including the equivalent of year 12 (including a GCSE-equivalent English language qualification) in one of the countries on the Home Office's list of recognised countries
demonstrated that they have successfully completed a recognised UK degree
In addition to the Home Office's list, we can also accept degrees from selected other English-speaking countries and institutions as evidence of English proficiency.
For more information, please consult the following:
UK Government website
Policy on alternative English language qualifications
IELTS website
Centre for English Language Education (CELE)
Recognised and equivalent qualifications
The following are the recognised primary English Language qualifications:
The academic version of the IELTS. IELTS tests are available worldwide. See the IELTS website to find your nearest test centre.
Successful final assessment of an appropriate pre-sessional English language course offered by the University of Nottingham's Centre for English Language Education (CELE).
A number of alternative language qualifications can also be accepted as B2 equivalent alternatives for NQF Level 6 (undergraduate degree level) study and above. For more information, please consult the following:
English language equivalencies
Below are the grades or scores normally required for immediate entry on to academic programmes at the University. Grades or scores are valid for a maximum period of two years prior to the date of registration.
One year foundation certificates
Includes:
Secure English Language Test (SELT); Tier 4 student visa requirements
Please note that foundation course applicants requiring a Tier 4 student visa to study within the UK must provide evidence of a valid Secure English Language Test (SELT) as defined by the Home Office at the level of B1. This is due to visa regulations for non-degree-level programmes.
If you intend to apply for your visa outside the UK, the only tests available as a SELT for University of Nottingham applicants are an 'IELTS for UKVI' test (UK Visas and Immigration) from an approved IELTS SELT Consortium test centre, or a 'Pearson Test of English (PTE) for UKVI'.  If you apply within the UK you can take an IELTS for UKVI test or a Trinity College London SELT test. We do not accept LanguageCert for entry to our courses.
The IELTS entry requirement for foundation programmes is:
IELTS 5.5 with no less than 5.0 in any element.
The PTE entry requirement for foundation programmes is:
an overall score of at least 59 and with no less than 53 in any element.
Students who have not reached this language level may attend a Pre-sessional course at the Centre for English Language Education (CELE).
For full details of this policy including a list of approved test centres around the world and Trinity College London SELT test centres in the UK, please consult the following.
UK Government website
Centre for English Language Education (CELE)
Integrated foundation courses
Includes:
Medicine; Nursing and Midwifery; Physiotherapy and Sports Rehabilitation; Veterinary Medicine and Science; other undergraduate and postgraduate programmes; English language bandings document
Since students will be receiving an offer for an NQF Level 6 or 7 qualification, they are required to meet the University's English language minimum for undergraduate study upon entry to the initial foundation year.
International English Language Testing System (IELTS) 6.0 with no less than 5.5 in any element
Centre for English Language Education (CELE) pre-sessional course final assessment of "Pass to Integrated Foundation".
Medicine
IELTS 7.5 with no less than 7.0 in any element
Nursing and Midwifery
IELTS 7.5 with no less than 7.0 in any element
Physiotherapy and Sports Rehabilitation
IELTS 7.5 with no less than 7.0 in any element
Veterinary Medicine and Science
IELTS 7.5 with no less than 7.0 in any element
Other Undergraduate and Postgraduate Programmes
IELTS 6.0 with no less than 5.5 in any element
CELE pre-sessional course final assessment of "Pass"
or
IELTS 6.5 with no less than 6.0 in any element
CELE pre-sessional course final assessment of "Pass with Merit"
or
IELTS 7.0 with no less than 6.0 in any element
CELE pre-sessional course final assessment of "Pass with Distinction"
Further information
For more information about individual requirements, please consult the following:
Online prospectus
IELTS website
Centre for English Language Education (CELE)
Enquiries
Make an enquiry
Admissions Office
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK
Admission queries UNUK
UNNC
Admission queries UNNC
UNM
Admissions queries UNM
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
01 November 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/admissions/pol-alternative-english-qualifications.aspx
Header: Admissions
Intro: This page contains the University's policy on countries and qualifications which already meet its minimum English language requirements. Its content is primarily directed at prospective international students but may also be of interest to staff and current students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Admissions - The University of NottinghamAdmissions
This page contains the University's policy on countries and qualifications which already meet its minimum English language requirements. Its content is primarily directed at prospective international students but may also be of interest to staff and current students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.For the full permanent list of English language qualifications we accept please see our English language equivalencies document listed in the Overview below.
Overview
Includes:
English language equivalencies document; students on split site degree programmes
Students whose first language is not English are required to have an appropriate result in an approved examination in English language before they can register on an academic programme.
Details of recognised English Language qualifications are available on our Minimum English Entry Requirements page, which can be found here:
Policy on minimum English entry requirements
Students will automatically be classed as having an alternative acceptable English language qualification if they have either:
taken their education entirely in the medium of English and can demonstrate that they have completed a recognised undergraduate or full masters degree (excluding postgraduate diploma or certificate)
successfully completed the whole of their secondary education up to and including the equivalent of year 12 in one of the countries on the Home Office list of countries. For more information, please consult the following:
Gov.uk - Student visa - knowledge of English
Students on split site degree programmes (such as 2+2 programmes) who have undertaken the latter 2 years of their degree in the medium of English, at an approved English speaking institution, can be classed as having an acceptable alternative qualification.
Degree level studies from other English language speaking countries
Includes:
table indicating the level of vouching for B2 Level English equivalents; key Workspace links
While the following countries are not on the Home Office list, the International Student Recruitment team has agreed that degree level qualifications from certain countries (recognised institutions only) are an acceptable alternative to B2 level English.
Candidates who have successfully completed degree level study from the list in the following box are not required to submit any further evidence of English language ability.
Table indicating the level of vouching for B2 Level English equivalents
Country
Level of recognition
Additional information and links
Anguilla
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Barbados
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Bermuda
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Botswana
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Canada
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Non-bilingual institutions only
Cayman Islands
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Europe
Selected institutions only – staff should refer to the English language guidance on the International Office Workspace for further details
Gambia
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Ghana
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
India
Selected institutions only – please refer to the University's list of recognised institutions
List of recognised institutions – Workspace (UoN staff only)
Kenya
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Lesotho
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Liberia
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Mauritius
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Montserrat
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Nigeria
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Pakistan
Selected institutions only – please refer to the University's list of recognised institutions
List of recognised institutions – Workspace (UoN staff only)
Seychelles
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Sierra Leone
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Singapore
Selected institutions only – please refer to the University's list of recognised institutions
List of recognised institutions – Workspace (UoN staff only)
South Africa
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Tanzania
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Uganda
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Virgin Islands (British and US)
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Zambia
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Zimbabwe
All institutions recognised by the University of Nottingham
Further information
For more information about recognised institutions, please consult the following (entering your university username and password when prompted):
List of recognised institutions – Workspace (UoN Staff only)
Non-integrated foundation programmes
Includes:
Secure English Language Test (SELT)
All international applicants for non-Integrated foundation programmes are required by the Home Office to have taken a Secure English Language Test (SELT) and achieve the University’s minimum requirements for the programme.
Acceptable alternative English language evidence
Includes:
Acceptable alternative English language evidence form; performance at interview
This policy is not suitable for students requiring sponsorship under the Student route of the immigration rules.
If you wish to admit an applicant who does not meet the above criteria or the normal minimum requirements for their course but consider that the applicant has the required proficiency in English language you may submit acceptable evidence to the Head of Admissions. When compiling your evidence, please use the following online form:
Acceptable alternative English language evidence form
Such requests will only be considered where there is strong documented evidence that the student has attained the required level of English to meet the published requirements in all four elements (listening, reading, speaking and writing) but has not taken a recognised English language qualification.
Performance at interview alone will not be considered as acceptable alternative English language evidence.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK
Admission queries UNUK
UNNC
Admission queries UNNC
UNM
Admissions queries UNM
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
20 August 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/legacy-exceptional-regulations-covid-19-unnc-1920.aspx
Header: Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNNC - 2019/20 to 2020/21
Intro: This page contains the exceptional regulations that were developed in response to the coronavirus pandemic. Its contents are only relevant to staff and students affected at the University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC), during academic years 2019/20 and 2020/21.
Content:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNNC - 2019/20 to 2020/21 - The University of NottinghamExceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNNC - 2019/20 to 2020/21
This page contains the exceptional regulations that were developed in response to the coronavirus pandemic. Its contents are only relevant to staff and students affected at the University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC), during academic years 2019/20 and 2020/21.During academic year 2019/20, the University introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. These were campus-specific and meant to be read in conjunction with any pre-existing content within the Quality Manual.
A number of these exceptional regulations were then adapted for further use in academic year 2020/21, to better reflect the situation at that time.
From the beginning of academic year 2021/22, the active application of all Covid-19 exceptional regulations at the University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC) has now ceased.
Please note, however, that any outcomes from the application of the exceptional regulations during the 2019/20 and 2020/21 academic years will continue to be honoured and used in all future decisions regarding those affected.
More detailed information about all of these regulations can be found below, as well as within specific sections on all affected pages within the Quality Manual.
Exceptional Regulations actively applied during academic years 2019/20 and 2020/21
During academic year 2019/20, the University of Nottingham introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. In addition to those referenced below, this also included exceptional regulations for the following at UNNC:
Extenuating Circumstances
‘Safety-net marks’
Covid incomplete module outcomes
PGT 60 Credit dissertation
Classification
Progression
MRes and Professional Doctorate
Doctor of Philosophy and MPhil
External Examiners
The details of these particular exceptional regulations have all been collated separately, in the subsequent section, to better reflect their use during academic year 2019/20 alone.
However, it should be noted that any outcomes from the previous application of exceptional regulations (during academic year 2019/20) continued to be honoured and used in all future decision making concerning those affected.
Extenuating circumstances
The exceptional regulations for Extenuating circumstances and the University's guidance for Extenuating circumstances panels are contained in the following documents:
Covid-19 EC Exceptional Regulations - UNNC
Exceptional Guidance to Extenuating Circumstances Panels
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Extenuating circumstances procedure
Policy on circumstances affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments
Services for Students - Extenuating Circumstances
The thesis pending period (including Policy on extension)
Postgraduate research
The University's guidance for Viva Voce examinations, and the updated Submission Pack for Candidates are contained in the following documents:
University of Nottingham Viva Guidance (during Covid-19) - UNNC
Submission Pack for Candidates (during Covid-19)
These documents should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Viva voce examinations
Research degree programmes
Viva voce examinations
Submission pack for candidates
Procedures for assessment
Personal tutoring
The exceptional regulations for Personal Tutoring are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 Personal tutoring Exceptional Regulations - UNNC
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Personal tutoring
Exceptional Regulations actively applied during academic year 2019/20 only
During academic year 2019/20, the University of Nottingham introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. In addition to those referenced below, this also included exceptional regulations for the following at UNNC:
Extenuating Circumstances
PGR viva
Personal Tutoring
The details of these particular exceptional regulations have all been collated separately, within the previous section, to better reflect their continued periods of active application during academic year 2020/21 as well as 2019/20.
Assessment
The exceptional regulations for Assessment are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 Assessment Exceptional Regulations - UNNC
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Assessment overview and School responsibilities
Assessment regulations
Policy on e-assessment
PGT 60 Credit Dissertation / Project (masters students only)
The exceptional regulations for the PGT 60 Credit Dissertation / Project (for masters students only) are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 PGT 60 Credit Dissertation / Project Exceptional Regulations - UNNC
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Assessment overview and School responsibilities
Assessment regulations
Regulations for students admitted from September 2019 (PGT)
Undergraduate classification
The exceptional regulations for Undergraduate classification are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 UG Classification Exceptional Regulations - UNNC
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Regulations from September 2019 (UG)
Undergraduate degree classification from September 2015
Postgraduate taught degree classification from September 2015 (for students starting awards from September 2016)
Degree Classification: entry to Qualifying year or Part I prior to September 2015
Postgraduate classification
The exceptional regulations for Postgraduate Taught classification are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 PGT Classification Exceptional Regulations - UNNC
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Regulations for students admitted from September 2019 (PGT)
Postgraduate taught degree classification from September 2015 (for students starting awards from September 2016)
Undergraduate degree classification from September 2015
Degree Classification: entry to Qualifying year or Part I prior to September 2015
Undergraduate progression
The exceptional regulations for Undergraduate progression are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 UG Progression Exceptional Regulations - UNNC
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Regulations from September 2019 (UG)
Regulations from September 2017 to September 2019 (UG)
Regulations from September 2015 to September 2017 (UG)
Regulations from September 2005 to September 2015 (UG)
Postgraduate progression
The exceptional regulations for Postgraduate progression are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 PGT Progression Exceptional Regulations - UNNC
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Regulations for students admitted from September 2019 (PGT)
Regulations for students admitted from September 2017 and before September 2019 (PGT)
Regulations for students admitted from September 2016 and before September 2017 (PGT)
Regulations for students admitted from September 2012 and before September 2016 (PGT)
Regulations for students admitted from September 2006 and before September 2012 (PGT)
Postgraduate research
The exceptional regulations for Master of Research degrees (MRes) and Professional Doctorates are contained in the following documents:
Covid-19 MRes and Professional Doctorate Exceptional Regulations - UNNC
COVID Exceptional Regulations for PGR Students - UNNC
These documents should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
MRes and Professional Doctorates
Research degree programmes
Research programme regulations
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) from September 2019
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes)
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2019
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2018
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research) from September 2018
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research) before September 2018
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research), two years full-time / four years part-time
Regulations for Subject Specific Masters by Research Degrees
PGR students
The thesis pending period (including Policy on extension)
Policy on circumstances affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments
Research programme regulations
School Examination Boards and Examinations Officers
The exceptional regulations for Examination Boards and Examination Officers are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 Examination Boards and Examination Officers
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
School Examination Board
School Examinations Officer Role
External Examiners
The exceptional regulations for the period of appointment for external examiners are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 External Examiner Extensions
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Appointment and responsibilities of External Examiners
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
12 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/legacy-exceptional-regulations-covid-19-unm-1920.aspx
Header: Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNM - 2019/20 to 2020/21
Intro: No intro paragraph found
Content:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNM - 2019/20 to 2020/21 - The University of NottinghamExceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNM - 2019/20 to 2020/21
This page contains the exceptional regulations that were developed in response to the coronavirus pandemic. Its contents are only relevant to staff and students affected at the University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM), during academic years 2019/20 and 2020/21.During academic year 2019/20, the University introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. These were campus-specific and meant to be read in conjunction with any pre-existing content within the Quality Manual.
A number of these exceptional regulations were then adapted for further use in academic year 2020/21, to better reflect the situation at that time.
From the beginning of academic year 2021/22, the active application of all Covid-19 exceptional regulations at the University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM) has now ceased, with the sole exception of those which cover extenuating circumstances. These will remain active at UNM until further notice.
Please note, however, that any outcomes from the application of the exceptional regulations during the 2019/20 and 2020/21 academic years will continue to be honoured and used in all future decisions regarding those affected.
More detailed information about all of these regulations can be found in the sections below, as well as within specific sections on all affected pages within the Quality Manual.
For more information about those regulations which remain applicable at UNM in academic year 2021/22, please consult the following:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNM
(current)
Exceptional Regulations actively applied during academic years 2019/20 and 2020/21
During academic year 2019/20, the University of Nottingham introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. In addition to those referenced below, this also included exceptional regulations for the following:
‘Safety-net marks’
Covid incomplete module outcomes
PGT 60 Credit dissertation
Classification
Progression
MRes and Professional Doctorate
Doctor of Philosophy and MPhil
External Examiners
The details of these particular exceptional regulations have all been collated separately, in the subsequent section, to better reflect their use at UNM during academic year 2019/20 alone.
Any outcomes from the previous application of exceptional regulations (during academic year 2019/20) continued to be honoured and used in all future decisions regarding those affected.
It should also be noted that the exceptional regulations for extenuating circumstances at UNM remains in use and therefore, does not yet appear in either section. For more information about these regulations, please consult the following:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNM
(current)
Postgraduate research
The University's guidance for Viva Voce examinations and the updated Submission Pack for Candidates are contained in the following documents:
University of Nottingham Viva Guidance (during Covid-19) - UNM
Submission Pack for Candidates (during Covid-19)
These documents should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Viva voce examinations
Research degree programmes
Viva voce examinations
Submission pack for candidates
Procedures for assessment
Fitness to practise procedures
The exceptional Fitness to Practise Procedures for the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 Exceptional Fitness to Practise Procedures (MHS)
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Fitness to practise procedures
Personal tutoring
The exceptional regulations for Personal Tutoring are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 Personal tutoring Exceptional Regulations - UNM
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Personal tutoring
Exceptional Regulations actively applied during academic year 2019/20 only
During academic year 2019/20, the University of Nottingham introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. In addition to those referenced below, this also included exceptional regulations for the following:
PGR viva
Fitness to Practise (MHS)
Personal tutoring
The details of these particular exceptional regulations have all been collated separately, within the previous section, to better reflect their continued periods of active application at UNM during academic year 2020/21 as well as 2019/20.
It should also be noted that the exceptional regulations for extenuating circumstances at UNM remains in use and therefore, does not yet appear in either section. For more information about these regulations, please consult the following:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - UNM
(current)
Assessment
The exceptional regulations for Assessment are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 Assessment Exceptional Regulations - UNM
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Assessment overview and School responsibilities
Assessment regulations
Policy on e-assessment
PGT 60 Credit Dissertation / Project (masters students only)
The exceptional regulations for the PGT 60 Credit Dissertation / Project (for masters students only) are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 PGT 60 Credit Dissertation / Project Exceptional Regulations - UNM
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Assessment overview and School responsibilities
Assessment regulations
Regulations for students admitted from September 2019 (PGT)
Undergraduate classification
The exceptional regulations for Undergraduate classification are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 UG Classification Exceptional Regulations - UNM
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Regulations from September 2019 (UG)
Undergraduate degree classification from September 2015
Postgraduate taught degree classification from September 2015 (for students starting awards from September 2016)
Degree Classification: entry to Qualifying year or Part I prior to September 2015
Postgraduate classification
The exceptional regulations for Postgraduate Taught classification are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 PGT Classification Exceptional Regulations - UNM
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Regulations for students admitted from September 2019 (PGT)
Postgraduate taught degree classification from September 2015 (for students starting awards from September 2016)
Undergraduate degree classification from September 2015
Degree Classification: entry to Qualifying year or Part I prior to September 2015
Undergraduate progression
The exceptional regulations for Undergraduate progression are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 UG Progression Exceptional Regulations - UNM
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Regulations from September 2019 (UG)
Regulations from September 2017 to September 2019 (UG)
Regulations from September 2015 to September 2017 (UG)
Regulations from September 2005 to September 2015 (UG)
Postgraduate progression
The exceptional regulations for Postgraduate progression are contained in the following document:
COVID PGT Progression Exceptional Regulations - UNM
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Regulations for students admitted from September 2019 (PGT)
Regulations for students admitted from September 2017 and before September 2019 (PGT)
Regulations for students admitted from September 2016 and before September 2017 (PGT)
Regulations for students admitted from September 2012 and before September 2016 (PGT)
Regulations for students admitted from September 2006 and before September 2012 (PGT)
Postgraduate research
The exceptional regulations for Master of Research degrees (MRes) and Professional Doctorates are contained in the following documents:
Covid-19 MRes and Professional Doctorate Exceptional Regulations - UNM
Covid-19 Exceptional Regulations for PGR Students - UNM
These documents should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
MRes and Professional Doctorates
Research degree programmes
Research programme regulations
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) from September 2019
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes)
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2019
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2018
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research) from September 2018
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research) before September 2018
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research), two years full-time / four years part-time
Regulations for Subject Specific Masters by Research Degrees
PGR students
The thesis pending period (including Policy on extension)
Policy on circumstances affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments
Research programme regulations
School Examination Boards and Examination Officers
The exceptional regulations for Examination Boards and Examination Officers are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 Examination Boards and Examination Officers
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
School Examination Board
School Examinations Officer Role
External Examiners
The exceptional regulations for the period of appointment for external examiners are contained in the following document:
Covid-19 External Examiner Extensions
This document should be read in conjunction with all affected regulations. For more information about these pages, please consult the following:
Appointment and responsibilities of External Examiners
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
12 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/pol-circs-affecting-students-study-assessments.aspx
Header: Policy on circumstances affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments
Intro: This page contains the University's policy on circumstances affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Policy on circumstances affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments - The University of NottinghamPolicy on circumstances affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments
This page contains the University's policy on circumstances affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Please be aware that during academic year 2019/20, the University introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. These were campus specific and meant to be read in conjunction with all pre-existing content.
From the beginning of academic year 2021/22, the active application of the exceptional regulations affecting this page has now ceased, with the sole exception of those which cover extenuating circumstances at the University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM). The following will remain active at UNM until further notice in light of the current situation in Malaysia:
Covid-19 EC Exceptional Regulations - UNM
Exceptional Guidance to Extenuating Circumstances Panels
Any outcomes from the application of the regulations during academic years 2019/20 and 2020/21 across all three campuses will, however, continue to be honoured and used in all decisions regarding those affected.
Further details about those regulations which have NOT been extended into academic year 2021/22 can be found in the "Exceptional regulations applied in response to Covid-19" section below.
Purpose
During their study students may encounter significant personal difficulties that are outside their control and impact on their ability to study and/or complete assessments.
The Policy on circumstances affecting students’ ability to study and complete assessments provides mechanisms by which students may bring circumstances having a detrimental impact on their study to the attention of the University.
The policy and associated procedures allow for the consideration of the impact of those circumstances on their academic performance and the provision of measures to address the impact, where possible and appropriate.
1. Principles
Includes:
criteria; application
In order to be considered under this policy, such difficulties must meet all of the following criteria:
They must be out of the student’s control – the student could not have prevented them.
They must have had a significant impact – they must have had a demonstrably negative impact on the student’s ability to study or to undertake an assessment.
The timing of the circumstances must be relevant to the claimed impact.
The appropriate management of circumstances affecting students’ study and assessment is significant in ensuring that academic standards are maintained and that students are treated fairly.
This policy is applicable to all types of student on all programmes or courses.
2. Types of circumstance
Two types of circumstances may affect student performance in study and/or assessment:
(a)
Long term conditions/disabilities including Specific Learning Differences, such as dyslexia, dyspraxia, and ADHD, a recognised disability and/or long-term health condition, autism spectrum disorders (ASD) and mental health difficulties. For more information, please consult the following:
Policy on long-term conditions or disabilities affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments
Students with Support Plans have access to coursework extensions
The thesis pending period (including Policy on extensions)
Voluntary interruption of study
(b)
Shorter term circumstances such as a self-limiting illness which require consideration as and when they arise and may affect study and/or assessment. For more information, please consult the following:
Extenuating circumstances regulation
The thesis pending period (including Policy on extensions)
3. Responsibilities of Schools/Departments
i.
Schools should ensure that all students are aware of this policy and associated procedures. As a minimum they are expected to include information in their initial induction packs and remind students each year of its existence. This may be done by inclusion in the School/Programme Handbook. Assessment level information (e.g. opt out of ‘no evidence’ extensions) needs to be included in module handbooks (so information is at module level for joint honours students).
ii.
Each School should ensure that students are aware of primary contacts for submission of claims and should ensure that advice about possible outcomes/consequences is easily available to students. There may be times when a School will need to respond to students in a short timeframe so their procedures must support the ability to do this.
iii.
Schools should ensure that their Personal Tutors are aware of this policy, associated procedures and their responsibility, if appropriate, to support and advise their tutees when they know of their intention to submit a claim.
iv.
Schools should consider and respond to claims in accordance with the associated procedures.
4. Responsibilities of students
i.
Students are responsible for ensuring that they inform the University promptly of any circumstances that they consider are affecting their ability to study and/or undertake assessments. With early warning of a problem, the University can provide appropriate support. Students should be aware that the University cannot respond to a student's circumstances if they remain unaware of relevant information.
ii.
Where possible, students should contact their Personal Tutor, Support and Wellbeing Officer (UNUK), Disability Liaison Officer (UNNC) or other appropriate staff member in advance of engaging with associated procedures, so that they may receive guidance and support in these processes.
iii.
Students are expected to observe timeframes for the submission of claims defined in procedures associated with this policy.
iv.
Students are responsible for obtaining and providing the required evidence demonstrating their claimed circumstances. The University will not seek documentary evidence on a student’s behalf.
v.
Students should make every effort to ensure that they are fit to study and undertake assessment, and where a student feels that there are circumstances that are affecting them adversely it is their responsibility to seek advice and professional help, where relevant, to assist in resolving the problem.
vi.
Students are responsible for ensuring that they are available for all necessary study and assessment. A student will be in breach of the University’s attendance and engagement requirements if they do not attend an examination or comply with a coursework deadline and do not submit an appropriately evidenced claim in accordance with one of the procedures associated with this policy.
For more information about the University's Regulations governing attendance and engagement, please consult the following:
Regulations governing attendance and engagement
vii.
Students should use the policy and procedures reasonably and only for circumstances with a genuine, significant and demonstrable negative impact
5. Responsibilities of personal tutors
i.
Personal Tutors should support students making submissions related to the procedures associated with this policy, as appropriate.
ii.
If they have previously been made aware of circumstances affecting a student’s ability to study and/or complete assessments and believe those circumstances to have had an adverse impact on the student’s performance, at the student’s request, Personal Tutors should provide a statement as per the evidence requirements of associated procedures.
iii.
Personal Tutors should direct students to professional support for their circumstances and/or direct them to and help them navigate through University processes and procedures, and/or provide other appropriate support.
iv.
Personal tutors must ensure their knowledge of these policies is current and provide advice within the parameters of published policies and procedures.
6. Responsibilities of Support and Wellbeing Officers
i.
Support and Wellbeing Officers (UNUK) or Senior Disability Support Advisor (UNNC) should provide help and guidance to students in relation to their health and wellbeing within the parameters of published policies and procedures. They will direct students to professional support for their circumstances and/or direct them to and help them navigate through University processes and procedures, and/or provide other appropriate support.
ii.
Support and Wellbeing Officers (UNUK) or Senior Disability Support Advisor (UNNC) should support students making submissions related to the procedures associated with this policy. Often this will be part of a wider package of support provided to an individual student.
iii.
If they have previously been made aware of circumstances affecting a student’s ability to study and/or complete assessments and believe those circumstances to have had an adverse impact on the student’s performance, at the student’s request, Support and Wellbeing Officers (UNUK), or Senior Disability Support Advisor (UNNC) should provide a statement as per the evidence requirements of associated procedures.
iv.
Support and Wellbeing Officers (UNUK), or Senior Disability Support Advisor (UNNC) will attend and advise extenuating circumstances panels on student cases, but are not a member of the panel and are not part of the decision-making process.
v.
Support and Wellbeing Officers (UNUK), or Senior Disability Support Advisor (UNNC) may meet with students to explore support relevant to the issues identified in the claims the student has submitted.
7. Responsibilities of Student Services staff (UNUK) or Faculty Office staff (UNNC)
i.
Staff will offer support, information and direction to relevant procedures and specialist services.  Guidance provided will be within the parameters of published policies and procedures.
ii.
Staff will receive, log and process for consideration claims submitted by students. Staff will keep complete records of all claims and ensure that they manage and note extensions to deadlines and deferrals of examination such that relevant University offices are informed of the later assessment.
iii.
Staff will notify students of the outcome of their claims and update student records accordingly.
iv.
Staff will attend meetings of local extenuating circumstances panels to ensure records are kept and due process is followed.
v.
Staff will review outcomes of claims, provide data and highlight inconsistent or incorrect application of process or outcomes with the relevant Head of School/Department and, if appropriate, with Faculty Teaching and Learning Committees (UNUK), or Faculty Education and Student Experience Committee (UNNC).
8. Guidance on acceptable and unacceptable circumstances
Guidance on types of circumstance and whether they might be considered as good cause for failing to comply with an assessment requirement is provided in each associated procedure.
9. Ongoing circumstances
Where a student has had circumstances that affect their ability to study and/or take assessments for one period accepted but continues to be affected by or has a recurrence of the same circumstances, they should seek medical/other advice. If necessary, they should either refer to the Policy on long-term conditions or disabilities affecting students’ ability to study and complete assessments so that appropriate support for study or individual arrangements for examinations can be put in place or discuss with their School/Department the possibility of voluntarily interrupting their studies until the circumstances have been resolved.
Further information regarding ongoing circumstances can also be found in the extenuating circumstances procedure.
For more information, please consult the following:
Policy on long-term conditions or disabilities affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments
Voluntary interruption of study
Extenuating circumstances procedure
Extenuating circumstances regulation
10. Formal complaint
If a student has made, or is making, a complaint under the Student Complaint Procedure and feels that the matters covered by that complaint may have affected their assessment performance, they should make the School/Department aware in writing of their complaint such that it can be taken into account if appropriate.
For more information, please consult the following:
Student Complaint Procedure
Policy on student complaints
11. Timescales
Timescales for submissions of claims will be published within the relevant procedure and must be adhered to.
The timescales are deemed to be reasonable and allow students adequate opportunity to notify the University of circumstances affecting their ability to study and/or complete assessments.
12. Evidence
Includes:
reasons for rejection
All claims made under this policy must be supported by evidence/documentation as required in each procedure, except where explicitly permitted otherwise.
Claims will be rejected if appropriate evidence is not included at the point of submission or provided within the relevant permissible timescales.
13. Confidentiality of evidence
Confidential information will only be shared within the University for the purposes of implementing this policy in a fair and rigorous manner. Any student wishing to restrict the sharing of such information should make their wishes known to the appropriate members of staff, preferably in writing.
Normally such wishes will be respected unless to do so would be against the best interests of the University community or the interests of safety or security of any person.
Data protection principles will be observed at all times and records of claims will be kept in accordance with the University’s records retention schedule.
14. Informing students of outcomes
Registry and Academic Affairs (UNUK) or Faculty Office (UNNC) should inform students of the outcomes of claims in writing according to the relevant procedure in a timely and reasonable manner.
15. Additional links
Religious observance
Policy on academic appeals
Assessment regulations
Support to study procedure
Students required to withdraw on grounds of health and safety
Status change immigration advice
Policy on long-term conditions or disabilities affecting students' ability to study and complete assessment
Students with Support Plans - access to coursework extensions
The thesis pending period (including Policy on extension)
Voluntary interruption of study
Extenuating circumstances regulation
Extenuating circumstances procedure
Exceptional regulations applied in response to Covid-19
Actively applied in 2019/20 and 2020/21
Covid-19 EC Exceptional Regulations - UNUK
Covid-19 EC Exceptional Regulations - UNNC
Exceptional Guidance to Extenuating Circumstances Panels
Covid-19 PGR extensions to period of registered study Exceptional Regulations - UNUK
Noted differences in 2020/21
During academic year 2019/20, the University of Nottingham also introduced exceptional regulations in relation to postgraduate research extensions (including for UKRI-funded programmes, as well as the Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) and MPhil awards).
Outcomes from the application of those regulations during the 2019/20 academic year, in relation to PGR extensions, will be honoured, and used in all future decision making.
However, from academic year 2020/21 onwards, the Covid-19 PGR Extensions (UKRI funded) Exceptional Regulations and Covid-19 Exceptional Regulations for PGR Students will no longer be actively applied to a student's period of study.
Actively applied in 2019/20 only
Please be aware that the following Exceptional Regulations were developed and only applied in academic year 2019/20 due to the coronavirus pandemic. These records should be read in conjunction with all other content on this page. For more information, please consult the following:
Covid-19 PGR Extensions (UKRI funded) Exceptional Regulations - UNUK
Covid-19 Exceptional Regulations for PGR Students - UNUK
Covid-19 Exceptional Regulations for PGR Students - UNNC
Covid-19 Exceptional Regulations for PGR Students - UNM
For more information about the Exceptional Regulations as a whole, please consult the following:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - 2019/20 to 2020/21
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
24 November 2023||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/registration-and-attendance/students-withdraw-on-health-and-safety.aspx
Header: Students required to withdraw on grounds of health and safety
Intro: This page sets out the University's regulation procedure for students withdrawing on the grounds of health and safety. This content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Students required to withdraw on grounds of health and safety - The University of NottinghamStudents required to withdraw on grounds of health and safety
This page sets out the University's regulation procedure for students withdrawing on the grounds of health and safety. This content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Please note that students in the UK on a Student Route visa are also affected by the University's Policy on Immigration Sponsorship. Where academic policies and immigration policies seem to be contradictory, immigration policies will take precedence. For more information, please consult the following:
Immigration sponsorship
1.0 Purpose
This page sets out the University's regulation and procedure for students withdrawing on the grounds of health and safety.
In circumstances where there is serious concern about an individual's physical and/or mental welfare, the University will take all reasonable steps to provide help and support to the student. However, in some exceptional circumstances, it may be inappropriate to allow a student to continue with their studies, and the University has the right to require the individual to withdraw on the grounds of health and safety.
In addition, please be aware of the following:
The University's approach in all matters where there is a question of continuing attendance at the University through behaviour, performance or health, is to be thoughtful, measured and supportive
Concerns surrounding the health and safety of other students and staff are also central to the decision-making process
This process is intended to allow for every opportunity to resolve difficulties by negotiation
It is expected that a decision to require a student to withdraw will be exceptional
It is expected also that the individual will be encouraged at every stage to make use of specialist support services available within the University
Where it is alleged that a student has committed an offence against the Code of Discipline for Students, the matter will normally be dealt with through disciplinary procedures.For more information on the code of discipline for students, please consult the link below.
2.0 Roles and responsibilities
The Senate will appoint a Special Committee to deal with recommendations that a student will be required to withdraw either temporarily or permanently on grounds of health and safety will consist of:
A senior member of the University appointed by the Senate as Chair of the Committee
Two members of Senate nominated by the Vice-Chancellor
Two full-time registered students nominated by the Students’ Union on the recommendation of the Welfare Officer
The presence of student representatives will be subject to the explicit consent of the student facing a recommendation. There will be no student members if the student facing a recommendation so requests.
The Registrar will appoint a member of staff to act as Secretary to the Committee and will appoint an Investigating Officer to make the case that a recommendation to suspend or exclude be upheld.
2.1 Where matters have not been resolved and cannot be dealt with as a disciplinary matter
Where there are concerns about a student and the difficulties have not been resolved within the student’s home school, and the matter cannot appropriately be dealt with as a disciplinary matter, the Registrar may make a recommendation that a student be required to withdraw, either temporarily or permanently, from the University, or from some part of it. The Registrar may draw upon such professional/specialist advice as necessary in making a recommendation. The recommendation will be presented to a Special Committee of Senate appointed under this procedure.
In any case where the Registrar is of the view that the student is to be suspended or excluded immediately, pending a decision of the Special Committee, he may do that by exercising powers under Section XXIV(2) of the University Ordinances.
3.0 Procedural steps
1.
If a school has serious concerns about an individual student's health or safety, the member of staff with primary responsibility (for example, the tutor or supervisor) must in the first instance discuss the difficulties with the student. The concerns must be clearly identified and appropriate support offered if possible. The content and outcome of the meeting must be recorded and the record retained by the school for the duration of the student's course.
At any point in this process, the tutor or other member of staff may seek advice and guidance from the Director of Registry and Academic Affairs or a member of the University Health Service, including advice on personal matters which the student has given consent for them to discuss, as well as advice on referrals to University services.
2.
If the situation is not resolved satisfactorily by this discussion, a further meeting may be convened with the student involving the Head of School (or their nominee). The content and outcome of the meeting must be recorded and the record retained by the school for the duration of the student’s course.
3.
If the situation remains unresolved, the matter must be referred to the Registrar (and the Director of Registry and Academic Affairs notified). On receipt of a report from the Head of School detailing any steps taken in steps 1 and 2 and setting out the circumstances of the case (including matters occurring since the meeting referenced in step 2), if the Registrar is satisfied that a
prima facie case exists for the student to be required to withdraw from the University, the case will be referred by them for consideration to a Special Committee of Senate and/or (in the case of a recommendation for immediate suspension or exclusion) exercise powers under Section XXIV (2) of the University Ordinances.
In cases of urgency, the Registrar and Vice-Chancellor may act notwithstanding that some or all of the elements under steps 1 to 3 have not been taken.
4.
Where concerns about an individual student arise elsewhere than in a School, the Residential Experience Manager (for residential accommodation), the Chief Security Officer or another member of the University staff must make a report to the student's Head of School and the Director of Registry and Academic Affairs so that appropriate action may be taken in line with steps 1 to 3.
5.
Under the provisions of Section XXIV (2) of the University Ordinances, the Vice-Chancellor, the Registrar or a Pro-Vice Chancellor (PVC) acting on the Vice-Chancellor’s behalf may suspend or exclude any student from any part of the University pending a decision by a Special Committee of Senate.
3.1 Special committee of Senate
1.
The Senate will appoint a Special Committee to deal with recommendations that a student will be required to withdraw either temporarily or permanently on grounds of health and safety, as detailed in 2.0 Roles and responsibilities.
2.
The members of the Committee will be selected to ensure that any persons who have had any direct connection with the case or with the student concerned are excluded.
3.
The student may object to any member of the Committee chosen to hear their case on giving reasons for supposing that member not to be impartial. The validity or otherwise of the objection will be determined by the Chair of the Committee, or by the Registrar where the objection is made about the Chair of the Committee. If a committee member is excluded following an objection, an additional member will be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor or the Students' Union, as appropriate.
4.
The Committee reserves the right to seek specialist mental health advice when considering the case.
5.
The Committee will convene a formal hearing, at which the student has the right to be accompanied by a friend or adviser. Students with a disability may also be accompanied by a support worker (for example, a sign language interpreter or mental health worker) as appropriate to their needs.
6.
The student has the right to not attend a hearing. In all such circumstances, a representative of the student may attend on their behalf to present their case.
7.
The Committee may in its discretion conduct or conclude a hearing in the absence of the student if, for example, the student fails to attend the hearing after all reasonable effort has been made to invite them. In such circumstances, the Committee will take steps to ensure that the process continues in a fair manner.
8.
The Investigating Officer will provide the Committee with a written case supporting the recommendation to suspend or exclude the student.
9.
The student facing any recommendation will be given both a copy of the case to uphold the suspension/exclusion and notice in writing of the date and time of the committee meeting to allow time to prepare their case. They will be given a copy of the Rules of Procedure governing the meeting, which will include information about the right to be represented or accompanied at a meeting and to present medical or other relevant evidence.
10.
The Special Committee of Senate has the power to confirm or not to confirm a recommendation to require a student to withdraw temporarily or permanently from the University on the grounds of health and safety under the provisions of University Ordinances Section XV (20).
3.2 Rules of procedure for the conduct of a formal Special Committee of Senate hearing
1.
The Committee (with the Committee Secretary) will meet briefly in private to discuss procedure and ensure that there are no conflicts of interest. If the Committee is to hear oral testimony, the student, their representative, the Investigating Officer and any other University representative(s) with information relevant to the case will be asked to convene in a waiting area.
At the start of the meeting, the Chair will introduce everyone present, explain their roles and outline the procedure which will be followed.
The Chair will also confirm that the student and/or their representative has received all of the documentation and, if not accompanied, was aware of their right to bring a representative and therefore had chosen to waive that right.
The Chair must also confirm that the Investigating Officer has received any documentation submitted to the Committee by the student.
2.
The Chair will invite the Investigating Officer to make a brief opening statement, and will then invite the Committee to ask questions. If other University representatives are present, they will be afforded the same opportunity to make a statement, and may themselves be questioned.
3.
The Chair will invite the student or their representative to make a brief opening statement and will then invite the Committee to ask questions.
4.
At each stage the Chair has discretion to allow reciprocal questioning by the various parties.
5.
The Chair will ask the Investigating Officer and any other University representative(s), in turn, and finally the student (or the student’s representative) if they wish to make any closing statement and if they are satisfied that they have had a full opportunity to explain their case to the Committee.
6.
The student, their representative, the Investigating Officer and any other University representative(s) will withdraw while the Committee considers its decision.
7.
Any decision will be communicated to both the student and School in writing within two working days.
8.
In all cases, a record of the proceedings must be kept and the student provided with a copy.
3.3 Powers of the Special Committee of Senate
1.
The Committee will determine whether a student is required to withdraw permanently, or temporarily until certain specified conditions have been met, or for a specified period (with or without a requirement to meet conditions). The student will be informed in writing of the decision and its reasoning.
2.
Any exclusion that is not on a permanent basis will be subject to periodic review in the light of developments and any written representations made by the student or anyone acting on their behalf. Such a review would include medical evidence from the individual's medical practitioner, and would also allow for assessment from the University's own appointed medical specialists. Any such representations must be made in writing to the Registrar.
3.
A student may appeal in writing against the Committee's decision within seven working days of receipt of written confirmation of that decision. Any suspension or exclusion will remain in place for the duration of the appeal and for any further period during which the matter is under consideration by a Special Committee of Senate.
4.
An appeal against a decision of a Special Committee of Senate will be to a nominated Pro-Vice Chancellor (PVC) and can only be made on the following grounds:
That there was a procedural irregularity that resulted in unfairness to the student.
That the decision of the committee was manifestly unreasonable.
That there is fresh evidence or evidence which was for good cause not presented to the Special Committee of Senate and which might reasonably have resulted in a different decision.
5.
The PVC may disallow the appeal or refer the matter back to the same or a new Special Committee of Senate for further consideration.
3.4 Further steps
A student who has had their appeal rejected at this or an earlier stage can request a completion of procedures letter and put their case to the Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA).
For more information about the OIA, please consult the Office of the Independent Adjudicator
4.0 Related regulations, policies and procedures
Office of the Independent Adjudicator
Immigration sponsorship
Code of Discipline for Students
5.0 Version control table
Version Control Table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with the new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework, based on content last modified on 5th April 2022
QSC
August 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
04 September 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-responsibilities-of-student.aspx
Header: Responsibilities of the student
Intro: This page sets out the responsibilities of a postgraduate research student, including participation in their studies and completion of training. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Responsibilities of the student - The University of NottinghamResponsibilities of the student
This page sets out the responsibilities of a postgraduate research student, including participation in their studies and completion of training. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1. Policy
Postgraduate research students should participate fully and to some extent take the initiative in planning and executing their research studies and any necessary training, and will share with their supervisor the responsibilities involved in monitoring progress.
2. Requirements
Research students are expected to adhere to the following requirements:
2.1   Read relevant University and School publications
Students must familiarise themselves with University, Faculty, and School requirements and procedures for research study by reading the School Handbook, the University Guide for Students, and the Guide to Intellectual Property Management and Commercialisation.
Note:
PGRs are expected to take responsibility for being informed about changes in working, supervisory, and training and development arrangements in response to Covid-19, by engaging with and reading communications that are sent out by the School, Faculty and central communications (for example, PGR newsletter, regular blogs and messages released by the University, emails and locally provided Sharepoints).
2.2   Follow safety advice
Students must follow safety codes and advice scrupulously and participate in any mandatory Health and Safety training before commencing research activities.
Note:
PGRs must follow the University's Health and Safety policies and guidance in relation to Covid-19 and be aware that they may be subject to regular review and update
Note:
They must ensure that they have fulfilled all Health and Safety and School processes and requirements for Covid-19-safe working, in conjunction with their supervisory team, and obtained appropriate permissions prior to entering/re-entering buildings and commencing/re-starting on-site research activity.
2.3   Participate in planning and progress
Students are expected to participate in planning, progressing, and completing their studies, including preparing for reviews regarding confirmation of their MPhil or doctoral registration or transfer from MPhil to doctoral. They must participate as required in the process of monitoring their progress.
Note:
PGRs are expected to develop and maintain a detailed record of the impacts of Covid-19 on their research progress, and ensure that plans to progress and complete their studies take account of the impact of Covid-19 on research activities, and that these plans include consideration of how any risks to the research due to Covid-19 can be mitigated.
2.4   Communicate with supervisor
Research students must share responsibility with their supervisor for keeping up good communications and arranging meetings with their supervisor, attend the agreed meetings and prepare for them, and take the initiative in raising problems or difficulties.
2.5   Participate in research training
Research students must participate in designing a training programme and attend the recommended courses and other School activities designed for postgraduate students. Students should also ensure that they are familiar with the content of The Code of Research Conduct and Research Ethics and obtain ethical approval if required for their research project.
For more information, please consult the following (entering your university username and password when prompted):
Code of research conduct and research ethics - SharePoint
2.6   Meet assessment deadlines and requirements
Research students must submit written work on time, undertake examinations, other assessments and progress reviews as required by the School and Faculty.
2.7   Complete on time
Research students are expected to write up all or much of their theses by the end of their registered period of study.
3. Annual Leave
Includes:
School expectations
The University recognises the importance of taking holiday for the health and wellbeing of students engaged in postgraduate research.
This should be taken in line with School expectations (for example not taking leave during postgraduate training courses, School research events, seminars etc.), any contractual obligations (for example Research Council terms and conditions), and by arrangement with supervisors.
As a guide, postgraduate research students may normally take up to 25 days holiday in each year plus public and University holidays.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 June 2023||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/registration-and-attendance/emergency-contact-protocol.aspx
Header: Emergency contact protocol
Intro: This page contains the student emergency contact protocol and explains why students are asked to provide the University with such contacts at registration. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Emergency contact protocol - The University of NottinghamEmergency contact protocol
This page contains the student emergency contact protocol and explains why students are asked to provide the University with such contacts at registration. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Please note that students in the UK on a Student Route visa are also affected by the University's Policy on Immigration Sponsorship. Where academic policies and immigration policies seem to be contradictory, immigration policies will take precedence. For more information, please consult the following:
Immigration sponsorship
1.0 Purpose
All students are asked to provide details of an emergency contact when registering for their course as part of the University’s approach to supporting the safety, welfare and wellbeing of students. This information is requested in the unlikely event that there is a serious incident, or there is serious concern for the safety, welfare and wellbeing of a student registered with the University. Whilst students are encouraged to record an emergency contact, it is not mandatory to do so. The information below sets out the possible circumstances when it may be necessary for the University to communicate with a student’s emergency contact.
Where an emergency contact, or other concerned third party, communicates information to the University regarding a concern for student wellbeing or welfare, the University will act in a timely manner to make contact with the student to ascertain their safety and any follow up actions. Any communication back to the emergency contact or concerned third party will be in line with this protocol.
In the event of a student death, this Emergency Contact Protocol will not apply. In accordance with the privacy information for students the University may provide emergency contact details to the Police who would normally be responsible for the initial, direct contact with the student’s next of kin. Only after initial Police contact would the University be in contact with the next of kin. For more information, please consult the Privacy information for students and applicants below.
Please note that students in the UK on a Student Route visa are also affected by the University's Policy on Immigration Sponsorship. Where academic policies and immigration policies seem to be contradictory, immigration policies will take precedence. For more information, please consult the following:
Limitations on immigration sponsorship and Graduate Visa reporting
2.1 Who can be an emergency contact?
Students can nominate a parent, relative, guardian, partner, spouse or close friend to be an emergency contact. An emergency contact is not required to be a student’s next of kin. However, a nominated emergency contact does need to be able to act on the behalf of the registered student. Students are encouraged to take the following steps.
To let the person nominated as emergency contact know that this has been done and that the nominated person’s contact details have been shared with the University.
To supply mobile telephone details rather than landline telephone details, making the contact as accessible as possible.
To check regularly and update emergency contact information, and change as needed via MyNottingham, to ensure accurate information is available in the case of an emergency.
Where an emergency contact does not speak English, the University will work with the preferred translation service as quickly as possible to ensure appropriate communication can take place.
2.2 University use and storage of personal data
The University recognises students as individuals with the expectation of having information securely stored and that personal information is not shared inappropriately. These expectations will be respected in making any decision to use emergency contact details.  Each situation will be decided on a case-by-case basis, and where possible this will be in consultation and agreement with the student concerned. However, in some circumstances (for instance if a student is unconscious, or incapable of deciding) this may prevent gaining this agreement.
Under current data protection legislation, the University is permitted to share personal information about students without consent where there is a belief that this is necessary to protect a student’s immediate interest or those of another person. This usually means that a student will have been involved in, or that there is a risk of, an incident or an emergency where it is believed that a student or others may come to serious or lasting harm.
The Emergency contact information provided will be held on the University student record system, in accordance with the University's policy on 'Privacy Information for Students and Applicants' and in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). For more information, please consult the following:
Privacy Information for Students and Applicants
2.3 Circumstances when the University may need to get in touch with an emergency contact
Some scenarios in which the University may get in touch with an emergency contact and share personal information with them are detailed below. Each case will always be considered on its unique circumstances. Examples include, but are not limited to:
A student is exhibiting behaviour that may pose a serious risk to their safety and/or wellbeing or that of others.
A student has attended or been admitted to hospital in an emergency, and where there is serious concern for a student’s immediate health or long-term health.
A student has suffered a serious physical injury, including significant self-harm.
A student ceases to engage with their studies, and the University has been unable to make contact to confirm their safety and wellbeing. This would usually be via the escalation process within the Student Engagement Dashboard Initiative. For more information, please consult the following:
Student Engagement Dashboard
A student has not been seen in their accommodation for a period of time, and the University has been unable to make contact with them, therefore the student is considered missing.
A student has an ongoing serious illness and they appear to be significantly deteriorating.
In the view of experienced mental health practitioners, there is evidence to suggest that a student is experiencing a mental health crisis, of a nature and degree that warrants contacting the emergency contact.
A third party has reported significant concerns about a student and the University are not able to make contact to establish their safety and wellbeing.
A student has been the victim of a serious crime.
In the case of any student under the age of 18 years old, the University is always required to contact the parent or guardian when there are concerns about the health, safety, wellbeing or welfare of a student. The University’s Registrar (or Registrar’s nominee) will make a decision about this where necessary and in line with the University approach to the health, safety, welfare and wellbeing of students.
Emergency contact details will not be used for the purpose of reporting on academic progress.
3.0 Roles and Responsibilities
The following staff may contact an emergency contact where required to do so: Associate Director of Student Wellbeing (or nominee(s)), and contact will usually be made by a member of the University’s professional support services.
A decision to contact a student’s emergency contact or to share concerns about a student’s safety, welfare or wellbeing will be taken by the Director of Student and Campus Life or their nominee(s).  The University will inform the student of this decision, unless to do so would increase the risk of harm to the student or another person.
The Director of Student and Campus Life (or nominee) will keep a confidential record of the justification for this decision, the nature of the information shared, with whom, and the time and date of the information shared. The Director of Student and Campus Life (or Head of Security for decisions made outside of regular office hours) or their nominee will contact the emergency contact personally.
4.0 Procedural Steps - Decision process for contacting a student’s emergency contact
Once a student has consented for the University to contact an emergency contact in specific circumstances (such as those set out above), this consent will be saved within the student’s case notes. The following staff may contact an emergency contact where required to do so: Associate Director of Student Wellbeing (or nominee(s)), and contact will usually be made by a member of the University’s professional support services.
In circumstances where the University decides to contact the emergency contact without student consent, due to a student being unable or unwilling to provide consent, but there is serious concern about their safety, welfare or wellbeing, then:
a) The responsible University staff member will set out the rationale for doing so and the nature of the serious concern about the student’s  safety, welfare or wellbeing.
b) During regular office hours, a senior University manager, such as the Director of Student and Campus Life or Associate Director of Student Wellbeing (or their nominee) will then consider this rationale and make the decision on whether to contact the students nominated emergency contact.
c) Outside of regular office hours this decision may be taken by the Head of Security (or nominee).
The University respects student’s personal information, and contact will only be made with an emergency contact with due consideration. The rationale for the necessity to contact an emergency contact will be provided by relevant professional support services staff to the Director of Student and Campus Life (or their nominee(s)) and this may be informed by advice from the Head of Data Protection.
5.0 Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures
Privacy information for students and applicants
Immigration and Sponsorship of International Students
Where academic policies and immigration policies seem to be contradictory, immigration policies will take precedence.
Student Engagement Dashboard
6.0 Version Control Table
Version Control Table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework based on content last modified March 2023
QSC working group
July 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
30 July 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/assessment-overview-and-school-responsibilities.aspx
Header: Assessment overview and School responsibilities
Intro: This page contains essential information around assessments, including an outline of School responsibilities. Its content is primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Assessment overview and School responsibilities - The University of NottinghamAssessment overview and School responsibilities
This page contains essential information around assessments, including an outline of School responsibilities. Its content is primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Assessment overview
Includes:
compliance with section on Assessment in the UK Quality Code for Higher Education
The University is committed to ensuring that methods of assessment are effective in enabling every student to demonstrate the extent to which they have achieved the intended learning outcomes for the credit or qualification being sought in an equitable, valid and reliable way. The University meets that commitment through its policies and procedures.
These guidelines have been written to signpost the relevant policies and procedures and were written using the Advice and Guidance sections for Assessment in the UK Quality Code for Higher Education.
For more information about Assessment, please consult the following on the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) website:
UK Quality Code, Advice and Guidance: Assessment
Essential information
Includes:
established principles; exceptions
It is an established principle of the University, endorsed by Executive Board (UEB) and Education and Student Experience Committee (ESEC), that when registered for a University of Nottingham qualification all teaching and assessment must be in English. The only exception is where the subject of study is a language or literature other than English.
The volume, timing and nature of assessment should enable students to demonstrate the extent to which they have achieved the intended learning outcomes.
Assessment must be carried out securely, including the secure storage of assessment questions, the appropriate invigilation of examinations and the confirmation of student identity in the submission or sitting of assessments.
School responsibilities
Includes:
in-house exams, assessment guidelines, marking by number, recognition of other learning
The School is responsible for the following:
Setting assessment at the level appropriate to the academic standard for each award of credit or qualification.
Ensuring that student performance is equitably judged against the appropriate academic standards (see policies on marking and grading, degree classification and external examining).
Ensuring that the principles, procedures and processes of assessment are publicised to students, academic and administrative staff, external examiners and appropriate others through suitable channels.
* Guidance for students is also available in the Quality Manual's student engagement category; general guidance for examinations is available for sitting University examinations' and about the legibility of work submitted for assessment. For more information, please consult the Related links for students section.
Schools wishing to hold 'in-house' examinations or tests (including on-line assessments and 'take away' examinations) should ensure that they publish written policies on the use of such assessments.  Schools holding such assessments whilst students are still being taught on other modules should ensure that there is no conflict between those assessments and student attendance at teaching or other activity associated with other modules the student is taking.
They should also ensure that the needs of students with dyslexia, disabilities and/or long-term medical conditions are considered when conducting such assessments. The School's policy must be included in a School's student handbook(s) or otherwise drawn to the attention of students.
Seeing that any ‘in-house’ examinations or tests are carried out securely including a confirmation of student identity and proper invigilation of examinations. Guidance and support can be sought from the Assessment Operations team within Registry and Academic Affairs.
Ensuring that the rules and regulations for progressing from one stage of a programme to another and for qualifying for an award are publicised to students, academic and administrative staff, external examiners and appropriate others through suitable channels. Guidance for Schools on the sort of information they should make available to students can be found in Information about Provision of Higher Education, this includes information about assessment policies and procedures.
Ensuring that all involved in the assessment of students, including support staff who have responsibilities in this area, are competent to undertake their roles. Relevant policies include Responsibilities of the School Examinations Officer, marking and grading, Policy on occasional teachers, Policy on students who teach and any other policy mentioned in this overview. For more information, please consult the Related links for staff section.
Where students are involved in assessment through peer to peer activities they are provided with guidance which helps them to fulfil the role in question.
Ensuring a transparent communication of student achievement at individual assessment task level.
Making those who might be eligible for the recognition of prior learning aware of the opportunities available and providing support through the process of application and assessment for recognition in line with the policy on Recognition of Other Learning (ROL). For more information, please consult the following:
Recognition of Other Learning
Ensuring that assessment and feedback practices are informed by reflection, consideration of professional practice and subject specific educational scholarship.
Publishing clear assessment guidance and criteria such that staff and students can engage in dialogue to promote a shared understanding of the basis on which academic judgements are made.
Provide students with opportunities to develop an understanding of, and the necessary skills to demonstrate, good academic practice.
Seeing that feedback on assessment is timely, constructive and developmental.
Acting responsibly in any circumstance where draft assessment questions/tasks, or students' work, are held or transported off-site (including where scripts are sent to an external examiner).
Ensure that students are given information regarding where in the assessment process anonymity ends in line with the marking by number system employed by the University.
For more information about this system, please consult the following:
Marking by number
Schools are expected to make sure that students are aware of the School's responsibilities
Related links for students
Student engagement and representation
Guidance for students sitting University examinations
Policy on the legibility of work submitted for assessment
Marking by number
Related links for staff
Policy on marking and grading
Degree classification
External examiners
Information about the provision of Higher Education
Responsibilities of the School Examinations Officer
Policy on Occasional Teachers
Policy on students who teach
Recognition of Other Learning
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
22 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/assessment-regs.aspx
Header: Assessment regulations
Intro: This page contains the University's regulations for the completion of assessed coursework, examinations and mixed assessments. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Assessment regulations - The University of NottinghamAssessment regulations
This page contains the University's regulations for the completion of assessed coursework, examinations and mixed assessments. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Assessed coursework regulations
Includes:
submission; hard copies; deadlines
All assessed coursework should be submitted electronically wherever practical, except for cases where it is physically impossible due to format (e.g. physical models, hand-written fieldwork, laboratory or project notebooks/diaries, complex or hand drawn graphics or scientific notation not supported by current technologies etc).
Schools should not otherwise request the submission of hard copies.  Cases where work is not submitted electronically will be reviewed by Faculty Associate Pro-Vice Chancellors (APVCs) annually to ensure consistent practice.
The standard deadline for submission of coursework on all campuses should be 15:00 local time. It is recommended that deadlines are set on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays.
Examination regulations
Includes:
expectations; late arrival; Regulations 1 - 2
Students must attend all examinations set as part of their programme of study.
Students must submit coursework required by their programme of study.
If a student has extenuating circumstances which they believe may affect their performance in assessed coursework or examinations, they should submit an extenuating circumstances claim (EC), by the deadline set in our Extenuating Circumstances Policy.
If a student has extenuating circumstances which they believe caused them to miss some or all of an examination, they should submit an extenuating circumstances claim (EC), by the deadline set in our Extenuating Circumstances Policy.
If a student misses an examination or fails to submit coursework and has no extenuating circumstances the University's Regulations governing attendance and engagement will be applied.
For more information about the Regulations governing attendance and engagement, please consult the following:
Regulations governing attendance and engagement
Regulation 1
Students late for an in-person written examination who arrive before one hour of the examination has elapsed shall be permitted to sit the paper. No extra time shall be allowed, whatever the reason for their lateness.
For more information, please consult the following:
Extenuating circumstances
Regulation 2
Students late for any written examination who arrive one hour or more into the examination shall not be permitted to sit the paper.
Missed assessment regulations
Includes:
leaving the examination; missing an assessment; weighted average; deadlines and penalties; student responsibilities; Regulations 3 - 8
Regulation 3
No student shall be permitted to leave the examination within the first hour.
Regulation 4
(a)
A student who misses an assessment (this includes not submitting assessed coursework prior to the meeting of the relevant Board of Examiners) may submit an extenuating circumstances claim. If the student is offered a further assessment, the timing and form of this will be at the discretion of the student's School/Department and will be regarded as the equivalent sit at the assessment.
For more information about extenuating circumstance procedures, please consult the following:
Extenuating Circumstances procedure
(b)
If a student misses an assessment and is offered and declines another opportunity to take the assessment, the original mark will not be used. The student would be awarded a mark of zero for the assessment.
(c)
If a student is offered another opportunity to take an element of assessment through the extenuating circumstances process, and declines the offer, then the original mark will not be used. The student would be awarded a mark of zero for the assessment.
(d)
If a student takes up the opportunity for further assessment described in (a) and subsequently achieves a lower mark, that lower mark will stand.
For more information about the University's academic regulations, please consult the following category:
Academic regulations
Regulation 5
(a)
Students will be regarded as missing an assessment with sufficient cause if they have an upheld extenuating circumstances claim for circumstances in which the relevant Board of Examiners judges that it would be unreasonable to expect the student to have attempted the assessment.  Boards will reach that judgement on the basis of evidence and recommendations provided by the School/Department.
(b)
Where possible, students must make their School/Department aware of circumstances that may constitute sufficient cause prior to the meeting of the relevant Board of Examiners/Extenuating Circumstances Panel.
For more information about extenuating circumstance procedures, please consult the following:
Extenuating Circumstances procedure
Regulation 6
Where the student has, with sufficient cause and an upheld extenuating circumstances claim, missed an assessment which counts for 50% or less of the overall module mark, the marks obtained from completed assessments may be used as the overall module mark on a 'part for whole' basis.  A Board of Examiners may recommend this course of action only after considering the relevant learning outcomes.
This regulation does not remove the need to offer the student another opportunity to take an assessment.
Regulation 7
A student who misses a timetabled assessment without sufficient cause will receive a mark of 0% in that assessment.
Regulation 8
(a)
A student who submits assessed coursework after the deadline (as modified by any extensions granted by the relevant School/Department) shall have the mark for that coursework reduced by 5% for each normal working day (including vacations but not weekends, public holidays or University holidays) that has passed since the deadline, until a mark of 0% is reached. For example, an original mark of 67% would be successively reduced to 62%, 57%, etc.
For more information on the regulations on penalties for late submission, please consult the following:
Policy on penalties for late submission of assessed work
(b)
Notwithstanding (a) above, a student's School may specify any length of time after the coursework deadline as the point at which a mark of 0% will be awarded, so long as: the period is not longer than that which would arise from the application of Regulation 8 (a) above; and the period is given in writing to the student at the beginning of the module.
(c)
In all circumstances, a student will receive a mark of 0% if, without sufficient cause, the coursework has not been submitted prior to the meeting of the relevant Board of Examiners.
E-exams
There is a requirement for completed e-exam papers to be uploaded within a given timeframe, which depends on the format of the e-exam (see below).
1.
ExamSys (formerly Rogo) e-exams invigilated on campus:
This timeframe is equal to the duration of the exam plus any period of ‘technical time’ permitted, added by the invigilator when a student has a technical difficulty.
2.
ExamSys (formerly Rogo) e-exams sat remotely:
An additional 10 minutes is now built in to allow for IT issues, so final submission time is the length of the paper plus a further 10 minutes if needed.
3.
Moodle e-exams of up to 3 hours (STEs):
In addition to the exam length, an additional 30 minutes will be permitted for all students to cover IT issues and upload time.
Information provided to students will clearly state that the time permitted includes additional time for upload, and that work submitted after the end of the additional 30-minute period will not be accepted and will be given a mark of zero unless there are approved extenuating circumstances that are supported by evidence.
4.
Moodle e-exams of 24 hours:
No additional time is given for 24 hours as that already allows time for technical issues.
Work submitted after the end of the 24-hour window will not be accepted and will be given a mark of zero unless there are approved extenuating circumstances that are supported by evidence.
5.
Extenuating circumstances for late submission of e-exam:
5.1
The criteria to be used when considering such extenuating circumstances are:
The strength of the evidence of any disruption and its duration.
The length of the exam and how much potential advantage has been gained through late submission.
The clarity of communications sent to students about time allocated for uploading and the consequences of late submission.
The requirements (if any) of any relevant Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies (PSRBs).
5.2
It is noted that not all e-exams are taken in a format where late submission is possible and that some examinations are proctored. These exams are outside of the remit of this policy. Students should follow local guidance on how to proceed in these cases.
5.3
Possible outcomes
Where a paper is uploaded no more than 5 minutes after the upload time:
Paying particular attention to the potential advantage that might have been gained through late submission and the consequences of decisions made by the EC panel for the student, the EC panel may approve the paper for marking.
Where a paper is uploaded after the specified upload time and the additional 5 minute window:
EC panels may offer a first sit reassessment; this reassessment will take place at the first opportunity.
6.
E-exams are subject to self-certification, which allows a student to self-certify absence from exams for a maximum of 48 hours (two consecutive days). A student is not able to self-certify after the assessment window has opened.
For more information about self-certification (which is covered by the extenuating circumstances regulations), please consult the following:
Extenuating circumstances regulations
7.
In the case of severe system performance issues:
Academic and professional services leads will be provided with a summary report where there are documented system performance issues during any exam release, and QSC will advise Schools and Departments on approaches to extenuating circumstances.  In exceptional cases (e.g. significant documented system degradation), Schools may seek permission from Quality and Standards Committee to offer a blanket extenuating circumstance to an entire cohort, offering a reassessment at the earliest opportunity. Such requests should be treated, via Registry and Academic Affairs, under the QSC procedure for cases outside of regulations.
For more information about the QSC procedure for cases outside of regulations, please consult the following:
Quality and Standards Committee
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
22 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/assessment-and-marking-policies.aspx
Header: Assessment and marking policies
Intro: This section contains the University's assessment and marking policies. These pages are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Assessment and marking policies - The University of NottinghamAssessment and marking policies
This section contains the University's assessment and marking policies. These pages are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Pages within this section
Policy on Joint Honours programmes
Policy on the legibility of work submitted for assessment
Policy on e-exams
Policy on marking and grading
Marking by number
Policy on penalties for late submission of assessed work
High Performance Athlete academic flexibility
Policy on feedback to students
Policy on the retention of assessed work
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
22 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/deg-classification.aspx
Header: Degree classification
Intro: This section contains the University's undergraduate and postgraduate taught degree classifications. These pages are applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Degree classification - The University of NottinghamDegree classification
This section contains the University's undergraduate and postgraduate taught degree classifications. These pages are applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Pages within this section
Undergraduate degree classification from September 2020
Undergraduate degree classification from September 2015 to September 2020
Postgraduate taught degrees from September 2021
Postgraduate taught degrees from September 2015 (for students starting awards from September 2016)
Degree classification before September 2015
Contingency regulations
Policy on circumstances affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments
Policy on long-term conditions or disabilities affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
22 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/fitness-to-practise-procedures.aspx
Header: Fitness to practise procedures
Intro: This page contains Fitness to Practise procedures that apply to certain programmes of study. Its content is primarily directed at staff and students based at the UK campus but may also be of interest to those at the international campuses as well.
Content:
Fitness to practise procedures - The University of NottinghamFitness to practise procedures
This page contains Fitness to Practise procedures that apply to certain programmes of study. Its content is primarily directed at staff and students based at the UK campus but may also be of interest to those at the international campuses as well.Medicine and Health Sciences procedures
Includes
: Fitness to practise procedure (MHS) document
Those undertaking programmes in the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences (MHS) will need to follow specific fitness to practise guidance. For more information, please consult the following:
Fitness to practise procedure (MHS)
Social Work procedures
Includes
: Fitness to practise procedure (Social Work document)
Those undertaking Social Work programmes may need to follow specific fitness to practise guidance. For more information, please consult the following:
Fitness to practise procedure (Social Work)
BSc Accountancy procedures
Includes
: Fitness to practise procedure (BSc Accountancy document)
Those undertaking the BSc Accountancy programme may need to follow specific fitness to practise guidance. For more information, please consult the following:
Fitness to practise procedure (BSc Accountancy)
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
22 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/pol-proofreading.aspx
Header: Policy on proofreading
Intro: This page contains the University's policy on proofreading. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Policy on proofreading - The University of NottinghamPolicy on proofreading
This page contains the University's policy on proofreading. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Introduction
Includes:
expectations
Proofreading should initially be undertaken by students themselves; it can be a valuable learning experience for students to identify their own errors and inconsistencies. However, the University recognises that, in the course of producing a high-quality piece of work for assessment, students may wish to ask a third party to proofread work prior to submission.
Scope of the Policy
Includes:
overview; roles and responsibilities of staff; exceptions; collaborative assessment
Proofreading might be undertaken by peers, housemates, family members, academic members of staff and professional proofreading companies.
This policy, intended for the guidance of students and staff, relates to the proofreading of any text to be submitted as part of academic coursework and projects, including dissertations and PhD theses.
This policy sets out what the University considers to be appropriate with regard to proofreading and what checks should be in place when proofreading is undertaken.
Exceptions
Whilst mindful of the parameters of the policy set out below, appropriate members of staff may use their professional judgement to provide advice and guidance during the course of formative assessment, based on the individual needs of a student to maximise their opportunity to learn and understand what is expected of them academically. Those staff members are:
1. Dissertation or project supervisors (UG and PGT) and PGR thesis supervisors
2. Staff from Disability Support Services and Academic Support Tutors
3. English for Academic Purposes Tutors
In some disciplines and for particular pieces of assessment it may not be appropriate for any proofreading to take place e.g. where correct grammar is part of the assessment criteria or assessed work submitted relating to language and translation. For example, proofreading is not acceptable for pre-sessional courses (CELE) because language proficiency is one of the key learning outcomes.
Where it is inappropriate for students to have their work reviewed, Schools and Departments should make students aware of this in guidance and in advance of students undertaking the assessment, for example, if project partners are not to be permitted to proofread each other’s individual reports.
The University acknowledges that some assessments require students to work closely to produce a collaborative piece of work for assessment. The content for these assignments will necessitate a process of drafting and re-drafting of content by a number of different members of the team. This process is a key part of the learning experience. In these cases, students may actively edit content of other students within the group although it is expected that, collectively, the group is bound by the expectations set out in this Policy in respect to engaging with further third parties. This exception only applies to those pieces of work that are explicitly assessed as part of a group exercise. No form of collusion should take place regarding standard individual pieces of work and when detected, such cases may be subject to referral under the processes outlined in the Academic misconduct procedure.
For more information about the Academic misconduct procedure, please consult the following:
Student Services - Academic misconduct procedure
Student responsibilities
Responsibility for proofreading student work prior to its submission for assessment rests with the individual student as author. The University therefore wishes to provide clarity as to what proofreading of student work can reasonably entail.
Expectation of pieces of work submitted for assessment
Includes:
academic misconduct procedure; academic misconduct policy; student declaration on submission
The University expects that any piece of work submitted for assessment, whether credit-bearing or not, is the student’s own work. The Academic misconduct policy provides a non-exhaustive list of examples of academic misconduct, which include:
2.1.1 Plagiarism
: representing another person’s work or ideas as one’s own. For example by failing to correctly acknowledge others’ ideas and work as sources of information in an assignment, and neglecting use of quotation marks. This also applies to the use of graphical material, calculations etc. in that plagiarism is not limited to text-based sources.
Where permitted, a proof-reader may identify spelling and basic grammar errors. Inaccuracies in academic content must not be corrected nor should the structure of the piece of work be changed; doing so may result in a charge of plagiarism. A proof-reader may be used to ensure that the work meets a quality threshold with respect to English standards, unless a School/Department policy specifically prohibits this. Students should make every effort to familiarise themselves with their School/Department’s policy regarding proof-reading. Schools/Departments should ensure this information is accessible to students.
2.1.2 False Authorship
: where a student is not the author of the work they have submitted. This may include a student submitting the work of another student. This may also include the submission of work that has been produced (in whole or in part) by another student or third party. As it is the authorship of an assignment that is contested, there is no requirement to prove that the assignment has been purchased.
2.1.3 Collusion
: cooperation in order to gain an unpermitted advantage. This may occur where students have consciously collaborated on a piece of work, in part or whole, and passed it off as their own individual efforts or where one student has authorised another to use their work, in part or whole, and to submit it as their own.
Students who submit pieces of work for assessment where proofreaders have acted in a way that compromises the authenticity of that work and who have acted outside of the limitations set out in this policy will be investigated under the Academic misconduct procedure. It is the student’s responsibility to inform their proofreader of the University’s proofreading policy and to check their own piece of work prior to submission to ensure that it is in line with University policy and expectations.
Students will be required to make a declaration on submission that they have acted in line with University policy and expectations for proofreading.
For more information about the Academic misconduct policy and procedure, please consult the following:
Academic misconduct policy
Student Services - Academic misconduct procedure
Acceptable practices by proofreaders
Includes:
policy restrictions
Third-party proofreaders are not expected to actively amend existing, or create new, content in draft work; instead they should support the student by identifying errors and/or making suggestions relating to, but not creating, content.
Any third party reviewing work should be familiar with this policy and agree to operate within its expectations. It is the student’s responsibility to ensure that the proofreader is aware of the Policy and no proofreading should be undertaken if the individual concerned does not agree to align their practice with the conditions detailed below. At the point of submission, students will be expected to declare whether or not they have had their work proofread and if so, indicate that the proofreader has worked within the Policy’s restrictions (set out below).
The University considers it acceptable for proofreaders to:
Identify spelling and typographical errors
Identify poor grammar e.g. tense use, verb form, sentence structure, word order
Highlight formatting errors or inconsistencies
Identify spelling/grammar/typographical errors in labelling of diagrams, charts or figures
Identify typographical errors in equations
Highlight a sentence or paragraph that is overly complex or where the intended meaning is not clear
Draw attention to repeated phrases or omitted words
Identify errors in the referencing system applied
The University does not consider it acceptable practice for proofreaders to amend existing content whether through addition or reduction and, in particular, they must not:
Rewrite passages of text to clarify the meaning
Change any words or figures, except to correct spelling
Check or rewrite calculations, formulae, equations or computer code
Rearrange or reformat passages of text
Contribute any additional material to the original
Redraw, alter or relabel diagrams, charts or figures
Alter argument or logic, where faulty
Implement or alter a referencing system or add to references
Check or correct facts, data calculations, formulae or equations
Correcting errors identified in the reference system applied
Translate text drafted by students, noting that this does not prohibit translation of source material as long as it is properly referenced
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
03 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/pol-long-term-conditions-affecting-study-assessment.aspx
Header: Policy on long-term conditions or disabilities affecting students' ability to study and complete assessment
Intro: This page contains the University's policy in relation to long-term conditions or disabilities affecting students' ability to study and complete assessment. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Policy on long-term conditions or disabilities affecting students' ability to study and complete assessment - The University of NottinghamPolicy on long-term conditions or disabilities affecting students' ability to study and complete assessment
This page contains the University's policy in relation to long-term conditions or disabilities affecting students' ability to study and complete assessment. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Relationship to other Policies
This policy should be read in conjunction with the Policy on circumstances affecting students’ ability to study and complete assessments.
For more information, please consult the following:
Policy on circumstances affecting students’ ability to study and complete assessments
1. Principles
Includes
: examples of long-term conditions or disabilities
The University of Nottingham has a long-established support provision for students who describe themselves as disabled, as covered by the Equality Act 2010. The University of Nottingham is strongly committed to equality of opportunity for all students and the provision offered to disabled students begins at the application stage.
All students who declare a disability at application stage are contacted by Disability Support Services before arrival at the University to ensure that, as far as possible, appropriate support is available to meet the needs of the individual.
Disability Support Services consists of Specialist Study Support Tutors who work with students with Specific Learning Differences, such as dyslexia, dyspraxia, and ADHD, whilst the Disability Advisers work with students with a recognised disability and/or long-term health condition, autism spectrum disorders (ASD), and mental health difficulties and the ACCESS Centre.
For more information, please consult the following:
Disability Support Services
2. Responsibilities of Disability Support Services
Includes:
role of Disability Liaison Officer
Disability Support Services will contact applicants who have indicated that they have a disability, Specific Learning Difference, ASD, mental health difficulty, long-term health condition or other long-term circumstances in their application prior to coming to the University.
Where appropriate, Disability Support Services are responsible for identifying reasonable adjustments (referred to as ‘accommodations’) in the form of, for example, alternative examination arrangements and in-class arrangements. Disability Support Services will share details of accommodations with relevant members of staff, including the Student Support and Wellbeing Officer and Disability Liaison Officer (DLO) in the student’s academic school and the central examinations office.
Disability Support Services will facilitate the Disability Liaison Officers network. Each academic school has a Student Support and Wellbeing Officer and a DLO. The Disability Support Services Team will liaise with the Student Support and Wellbeing Officer, DLO and other members of the academic school to discuss the individual support needs of a student if this is required.
For more information about the DLO, please consult the following:
Students with disabilities
Disability Support Services will provide staff and students with general advice in relation to Specific Learning Differences and other disabilities, long-term health conditions or mental health difficulties at any point during the academic year.
Disability Support Services will provide advice on accommodations for examinations and in-class arrangements, such as an extension to a coursework deadline.
Disability Support Services will provide a range of support services to students, including; one to one and drop-in sessions, small group work, workshops and direction to screening tools.
Disability Support Services provide staff training sessions to all staff in order to increase understanding of disability, raise awareness of reasonable adjustments and inclusive practice.
For more information, please consult the following:
Disability Support Services
3. Responsibilities of Students
In addition to core responsibilities set out in the Policy on circumstances affecting students’ ability to study and complete assessments:
i.
Students who are aware of a disability, long-term health condition or other long-term circumstances (as outlined in the Principles section of this policy) that is expected to have an impact on their performance should make their School aware of those circumstances at the earliest possible opportunity.
ii.
Students should ensure that they access relevant support services that are available to them to ensure that all possible assistance is provided.
For more information about the Policy, please consult the following:
Policy on circumstances affecting students’ ability to study and complete assessments
4. Accommodations for disabilities and long-term medical conditions
The following processes are in place to support students requiring accommodations:
Referral to Disability Support Services to ensure core reasonable adjustments are identified and implemented.
For circumstances affecting assessments there is a procedure to implement Examination Arrangements for students who have a disability or long-term medical condition.
Such arrangements are intended to make full adjustment for the condition/disability so  no further adjustment or consideration would be appropriate.  It may be appropriate for  students to consider voluntarily interrupting their studies whilst arrangements are made  and appropriate support is put in place.
For more information, please consult the following:
Disability Support Services
Examination Arrangements for students who have a disability or long-term medical condition
5. Requests for extensions to coursework/assignment deadlines on the grounds of a disability or long-term medical condition
i.
Students who have a Support Plan have access to possible coursework extensions, which indicates that Schools and Departments should consider requests for extensions, wherever possible, on the grounds of their circumstances and they are not expected to submit an Extenuating Circumstances claim. A Coursework Extension Request form is available on the Student Services webpages and students making the request on the basis of a Support Plan should seek approval from the designated member of School staff BEFORE the original submission date. It is the School’s responsibility to inform students who the designated member of School staff is in their School.
For more information, please consult the following:
Student Services - students with support plans
ii.
Where a student has submitted a Coursework Extension Request form but has not had a response to indicate whether an extension is being granted by the time of the deadline, the student should submit whatever work they have completed at the time of the deadline such that, if necessary, it can form the assessment. Having submitted the work done to date, students should continue working in order that, should an extension be granted (which would be from the original submission date), they are able to take full advantage of any extra time allowed.
iii.
Students seeking an extension who do not have a Support Plan indicating that Schools and Departments should consider requests for extensions should submit a claim using the Extenuating Circumstances procedure. For more information, please consult the following:
Extenuating Circumstances procedure
6. Late Diagnosis of Long Term Health Conditions/Disabilities
Where Disability Support Services has assessed a student as requiring adjustment to normal arrangements for assessment but it is too close to a scheduled examination for the adjustment to be put in place for a centrally arranged examination the School should follow the procedure on the Student Services – Service Development website and if possible arrange for the assessment to take place in the School. If this is not possible the student may request deferral of the relevant examination(s) such that the adjustment can be made to a centrally arranged examination. Where diagnosis of a long term health condition/disability is made after an assessment has taken place it may be appropriate to annul assessments from the current session and allow the student to take them again such that they can gain a properly representative mark or to take the circumstances into account at the Board of Examiners at the award classification stage under the relevant Study Regulations. Further backdating of any adjustment will not occur.
Where diagnosis of a long term health condition/disability that requires support for study to be put in place is made during the academic year it may be appropriate to allow the student to repeat the relevant year/semester (for which a fee would be payable). Further backdating will not occur. Alternatively one of the outcomes may be applied:
(a)
For any student provide support for the student to compensate for the circumstances. If this is provided and is intended to make due adjustment for the circumstances, the same circumstances cannot be considered under any other University procedure.
or
(b)
For Undergraduate Students and Postgraduate Students on taught programmes
Bring the circumstances forward for consideration at the Board of Examiners which may consider annulling the affected year/semester and offering the student a repeat period of study (for which tuition fees will be payable) subject to this being an option supported by any sponsor or legal obligation and to the University’s policy on Maximum Period from Initial Registration.
or
(c)
For Postgraduate Research students
One or more of the following actions should be applied:
(i)
Undertake a further annual review if the student fails their annual review.
(ii)
Support the student in applying for an additional period of registered study and to the University’s policy on Maximum Period from Initial Registration.
(iii)
Support the student in applying for an extension to their thesis pending period and to the University’s policy on Maximum Period from Initial Registration.
For more information about the maxima, please consult the following:
Maximum period from initial registration for completion of studies
Where a student has not had appropriate adjustment in the current session for a late diagnosis they should submit a claim under the Extenuating Circumstances procedure as soon as the diagnosis is confirmed.
Where the condition is not covered by the Equality Act 2010, extenuating circumstances claims will be considered if submitted within the timescales provided for at section 9 of the Extenuating Circumstances procedure. For more information, please consult the following:
Extenuating Circumstances procedure
Where the student’s condition is covered by the Equality Act 2010, a School must consider claims submitted before a Board of Examiners (or equivalent for PGR students) has reached a decision on the student’s results. The University will also consider the circumstances if an Academic Appeal is submitted within one month of the notification of a progression or award decision. The Academic Appeal submitted by the student will need to demonstrate that new evidence was not, and could not have been, made available to the Board of Examiners at the time of its original decision. Any such matters which could have been raised before the meeting of the Board, but, without good reason, were not raised, will not be considered in the event of an Appeal.
In making a decision on the action to be taken, Schools/Appeal handlers should consider what adjustment would have been made had the disability, long-term health condition or other long-term circumstances been known earlier in the session.  If any appropriate adjustments have already been applied, no further action is necessary, otherwise actions should be backdated to cover the most recent session only.
Advice on the Equality Act is available from the University’s Disability Support Services website. For more information, please consult the following:
Disability Support Services
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
08 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/registration-and-attendance/max-period-from-initial-registration.aspx
Header: Maximum period from initial registration for completion of studies
Intro: This page provides information to all students about the maximum periods for the completion of studies from their initial points of registration. This information is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Maximum period from initial registration for completion of studies - The University of NottinghamMaximum period from initial registration for completion of studies
This page provides information to all students about the maximum periods for the completion of studies from their initial points of registration. This information is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Please note that students in the UK on a Student Route visa are also affected by the University's Policy on Immigration Sponsorship. Where academic policies and immigration policies seem to be contradictory, immigration policies will take precedence. For more information, please consult the following:
Immigration sponsorship
1.0 Purpose
This page lists the maximum periods for the completion of studies from their initial points of registration and related information including exceptional circumstances, UoNO and external requirements.
2.0 Key Principles
Students may need to extend their normal period of engagement with an individual programme for a variety of reasons. The University is flexible in making such arrangements, but there is an expectation that students will complete their studies within an absolute maximum time period from their initial registration, regardless of individual circumstances, to ensure the currency of their knowledge, their competency and the quality of their degree. To that effect, please be aware of the following:
Where students have changed programme, the set period relates to the initial registration on their original programme except where the student is transferring to the beginning of the first stage of a programme – in which case, the set period relates to the initial registration on the new programme.
This does not apply to University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC) programmes where the Ministry of Education requires that all periods are counted from initial registration, regardless of transfers.
The normal period of registered study for each qualification of the University is set out in the University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (UNQF). For more information about the UNQF, please consult the following:
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
In addition a student is not allowed to take more than three years to complete teaching and assessment that would normally be completed within one year, whether full or part-time.
In certain specific circumstances a period of voluntary interruption will automatically extend the maximum period of registration for the programme by up to one year. At UNUK and UNM voluntary interruption of up to one year due to disability, long term health issues, caring and parental responsibilities, maternity/paternity/adoptive leave, compulsory services (e.g. military), financial difficulties, or as a function of issues relating to students who are part of the exceptional performance athlete or scholars at risk programmes will extend the maximum by one year.
This does not apply to University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC) programmes.
At UNNC voluntary interruption of up to one year due to military service will extend the maximum by one year.
Other circumstances, not detailed above, such as other periods of voluntary interruption, repeat study or enforced suspension for reason of debt, the absolute maxima shown in the table below apply. In such cases, the School may apply to QSC for an extension to the maximum where it believes this is appropriate.
2.1 Extensions due to exceptional circumstances
An exception to the application of these maxima is where a student has a disability, or carer responsibility, that is causing, or has caused, the delay in completing their studies. Whilst the University would normally expect the maximum periods from initial registration to provide adequate opportunity for adjustment and support for students with disabilities, or carer responsibilities, there may be exceptional circumstances, beyond one year, in which further adjustment to maximum periods could be considered. In this case, the student must provide the school with an explanation and evidence of their circumstances.
The school will then need to judge whether, in the light of these circumstances, it is possible for the student to complete their studies within a period that sufficiently ensures the currency of their knowledge, their competency and the quality of their degree. If the school believes that it is, on balance, appropriate to extend the absolute maximum for that student, they will then provide a new absolute maximum to which the student must adhere.
Extensions to the maximum period of registration authorised by the School must be reported to the Quality and Student Management Systems Team in Registry and Academic Affairs (RAA).
2.2 Table of absolute maxima for the completion of all full and part-time programmes.
Table of absolute maxima for the completion of all full and part-time programmes
Absolute maximum period for completion – Full-time
Absolute maximum period for completion – Part-time
Foundation Certificate
3 years
3 years
Undergraduate Certificate
3 years
3 years
Undergraduate Diploma
6 years
12 years
Ordinary Degree (from start of Honours programme)*For students entering Qualifying year or Part I from September 2015, this degree is only available as an exit award
6 years
12 years
Graduate Certificate
3 years
3 years
Graduate Diploma
3 years
3 years
Honours Degree
6 years
12 years
Bachelors Honours Degree with Foundation Stage*Known as Preliminary Year at University of Nottingham Ningbo Campus (UNNC)
8 years
12 years
Integrated Master's Degree
8 years
12 years
Integrated Master's Degree with Foundation Stage
10 years
12 years
Medical Degree BM, BS (five-year programme)
10 years
12 years
Medical Degree BM, BS (four-year graduate entry programme)
8 years
12 years
Veterinary Medicine MVM, MVS
6 years
12 years
Veterinary Medicine BVM, BVS
10 years
12 years
Veterinary Medicine with Preliminary year BVM, BVS
12 years
12 years
Dip Arch with Bachelor's as first element and including year out
12 years
12 years
Dip Arch with Integrated Master's as first element and including year out
12 years
12 years
Postgraduate Certificate
3 years
3 years
Postgraduate Diploma
3 years
3 years
Postgraduate Certificate in Higher Education
3 years
4 years
Taught Master's
3 years
6 years
Two Year Taught Master's
4 years
8 years
Taught masters with Pre-Master's year (UNNC)
4 years
8 years
MRes/MSc/MA by Research
3 years
6 years
MPhil
4 years
8 years
Professional Doctorate
6 years
12 years
PhD
6 years
12 years
Absolute maximum period for completion
Absolute maximum period for completion – with EC
UoNO microcredential
12 months
15 months
UoNO microcredential Postgraduate Certificate programme
3 years
3 years
UoNO microcredential Postgraduate Diploma programme
3 years
3 years
2.3 UoNO Microcredentials
Students wishing to count UoNO Microcredentials towards the award of a UoN qualification are also bound by the maximum periods described. The ‘maximum period of registration’ commences on the date at which the student registers for their first Microcredential that they wish to put towards the award of a UoN qualification.
Schools being asked to make an award may submit a case to QSC to count UoNO Microcredentials commenced before that date under the ROL regulations, so long as they are satisfied that to do so would not undermine the currency of the qualification and would not violate any PSRB requirements.
A learner enrolled on a microcredential may stay enrolled on that microcredential for a maximum of 12 months from the date of registration unless there are extenuating circumstances.
Extenuating Circumstances
2.4 External requirements
If the regulations of an external accrediting body require a shorter time frame for an individual programme, or any legal requirement restricts the ability of a student to study as required or attend the University, the external requirement overrides the University maximum period.
Programme specifications state where an external restriction applies to the period of study. Where a student is on an accredited degree or a programme leading to professional registration and their normal period of study has been extended, it may be necessary for them to undertake additional assessment to prove competency prior to conferral of their award.
2.5 Visa-related
The maxima which are outlined within the table do not imply that where relevant a student will necessarily be able to obtain a visa for the extended period.
Students on a visa must seek advice from the Visa and Immigration team on their campus if their normal period of registration is potentially to be extended.
2.6 Refusal and withdrawal
A school must refuse to allow a student to interrupt study, repeat study, take external assessments or any other action that would result in it being impossible for that student to complete their studies within the defined time frames or those imposed by external requirements or limitations.
A student who for any reason will not be able to complete their studies within the maximum time frame will be withdrawn from the University as soon as this is evident. In such cases, a student will be awarded a lower level qualification if such a qualification exists and they have satisfied the regulations for that award.
For more information concerning regulations for students who have not met their honours requirements, please consult the following category:
Academic regulations
3.0 Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures
Extenuating Circumstances
Academic Regulations
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
4.0 Version Control Table
Version Control Table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with the new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework based on content last modified on 23rd January 2024
QSC
July 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
30 July 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/iqr.aspx
Header: Degree Apprenticeship Internal Quality Review (IQR)
Intro: This page provides information about the purpose and operation of the Degree Apprenticeship Internal Quality Review (IQR) process.  This information and its associated documentation may be of interest to staff, degree apprentices and employers involved in degree apprenticeships in the UK.
Content:
Degree Apprenticeship Internal Quality Review (IQR) - The University of NottinghamDegree Apprenticeship Internal Quality Review (IQR)
This page provides information about the purpose and operation of the Degree Apprenticeship Internal Quality Review (IQR) process.  This information and its associated documentation may be of interest to staff, degree apprentices and employers involved in degree apprenticeships in the UK.1.0 Purpose
The Degree Apprenticeship Internal Quality Review (IQR) is the UoN’s annual quality assurance and enhancement review process of degree apprenticeship programmes.
IQRs are an integral part of the quality assurance and enhancement processes for degree apprenticeships, working together with the Self-Assessment Report (SAR) and Quality Improvement Plan (QIP), with each process informing the next in a cyclical manner.
The IQR is a supportive and collaborative process focusing on enhancement to ensure quality assurance compliance as well as encouraging continuous improvement.
2.0 Key Principles
All recruiting degree apprenticeship programmes are subject to an annual IQR from the year following the first full year of delivery. Teaching out degree apprenticeship programmes will  continue to be subject to an annual IQR until all apprentices have completed the taught element of the programme.
The IQR is designed to:
Highlight areas of good practice and positive achievements
Identify areas requiring development can be and discussed and avenues of support
Ensure oversight of the assurance and enhancement of the education and student experience of degree apprentices
The IQR Process, including roles and responsibilities, is detailed in the IQR Process Document.
3.0 Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures
IQR Process Document
4.0 Version Control Table
Version control table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
New entry to the Quality Manual
QSC
December 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
07 January 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/programme-review-statement.aspx
Header: Programme Review Transparency Statement
Intro: This page provides information about the Programme Review Transparency Statement and access to the University of Nottingham’s statement. This page is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Programme Review Transparency Statement - The University of NottinghamProgramme Review Transparency Statement
This page provides information about the Programme Review Transparency Statement and access to the University of Nottingham’s statement. This page is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Statement
The current Programme Review Transparency Statement for the University of Nottingham can be found here:
Programme Review Transparency Statement
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
07 February 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/about-the-qm.aspx
Header: About the Quality Manual
Intro: This page provides important information about the University of Nottingham's Quality Manual, as well as its associated governance and responsibilities for compliance across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
About the Quality Manual - The University of NottinghamAbout the Quality Manual
This page provides important information about the University of Nottingham's Quality Manual, as well as its associated governance and responsibilities for compliance across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1.0 Introduction/Overview
The Quality Manual sets out the framework that governs all teaching and learning at the University of Nottingham.  It forms a central point of reference for all campuses (i.e. UNNC, UNM and UNUK); for staff, students. learners and apprentices.
It draws together a series of interlinked activities that support quality assurance for programmes, modules, short courses, micro-credentials, and the award of credit from the University of Nottingham. In this way we can enable compliance with all our regulators through a high quality student experience and successful student outcomes.
2.0 Purpose
The purpose of the Quality Manual is to:
Enable the effective and efficient monitoring of academic standards and the quality of the student experience in relation to internal priorities and external requirements (such as those stated in the QAA’s Quality Code and from accrediting professional, statutory and regulatory bodies);
Ensure consistency, whilst enabling and acknowledging appropriately diverse discipline practices;
Provide a mechanism for critical review and, in doing so, highlight and promote good practice across the institution.
3.0 Scope
This information is relevant to staff and students, learners and apprentices across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Note, in most circumstances references to ‘students’ in the quality manual also means apprentices and learners.
Where there are separate procedures or requirements for particular campuses or groups of students/learners, this is stated within the Quality Manual.
4.0 Key Principles
4.1 Governance
The University of Nottingham has Degree Awarding Powers (DAP) authorised by the Office for Students (OfS) in England. Where students have studied in Malaysia, the degree programme is accredited by the Malaysian Qualifications Agency (MQA) and recognised by the Malaysian Government. In China programmes run with the approval of the Chinese Ministry of Education.
All of our degree awards are of equal merit and standing across the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
All of The University of Nottingham’s awards align with the sector standards and where applicable Professional, Statutory,  Regulatory Body (PSRB) and Ofsted requirements. Quality regulations and processes are mapped against Office for Students’ conditions of registration for quality and standards to ensure compliance.  We also adhere to the QAA Quality Code.
QAA Quality Code
Expectations for standards:
The academic standards of courses meet the requirements of the relevant national qualifications framework.
The value of qualifications awarded to students at the point of qualifications and over time is in line with sector-recognised standards.
Expectations for quality:
Courses are well-designed, provide a high-quality academic experience for all students and enable a student's achievement to be reliably assessed.
From admission through to completion, all students are provided with the support that they need to succeed in and benefit from higher education.
The Framework supports the University of Nottingham’s values of inclusivity, ambition, openness, fairness and respect.
4.2 Responsibility for the Quality Manual
Responsibility for the Quality Manual lies within the Quality and Standards Committee, which reports to the Teaching and Learning Committee, and thus the Education and Student Experience Committee. For more information, please visit the following links:
Quality and Standards Committee
Teaching and Learning Committee
Education and Student Experience Committee
Many of the processes underpinning the Quality Manual are managed by Registry and Academic Affairs(RAA).  The key exception being the responsibility for the Annual Monitoring process and EEAR processes [add full term] which are managed by the Education Excellence Team.  Some decisions of the Quality and Standards Committee are delegated to other committees or departments.
RAA and School/Faculty colleagues are all able to monitor its ongoing effectiveness and to suggest improvements and corrections, plus relevant Associate Directors and QSC members review the content annually.
This electronic copy of the Quality Manual should be seen as the most up to date version and supersedes any and all previously published versions either online or in print. Any changes to these regulations or processes must be submitted to QSC for consideration.
4.3 Compliance
Across all of our campuses, responsibility for quality assurance and for the implementation of the Quality Manual rests with the Head of School or Department, under the jurisdiction of Senate and its committees. Within each School/Department or Faculty and within RAA, there will be processes in place to keep practices under review and in line with the Quality Manual.  Any Schools with provision on more than one campus will therefore be regarded as multi-campus entities for the purposes of the Quality Manual. Please refer to the International Campuses page for more details
International Campuses and Quality Assurance
The Registrar’s Department (i.e. Registry and Academic Affairs (UNUK); Academic Services Office (UNNC); Student Registry Office (UNM)) is responsible for interpreting the Quality Manual and thus, for determining whether an action is in accordance with its provisions and whether an approval at University-level is required.
If a School is informed that an action is outside the provisions of the Quality Manual but still wishes to pursue that particular course, the relevant School or Deptartment should prepare the case paperwork for QSC and forward it to the relevent Registrar’s Department who will arrange for that request to be considered on behalf of Quality and Standards Committee (QSC).
4.4 Responsibilities and delegation
It is the Head of School’s responsibility to keep their School’s practice under review and in line with the Quality Manual, as reviewed through the Periodic Review process.
Where responsibility is delegated, this should be formally documented and appropriate protocols made clear; where autonomy has been granted to another unit by the Head of School, the School is still responsible for ensuring that the policies and procedures within the Quality Manual are implemented.
For more information on delegated responsibilities in relation to international campuses please see the following link:
International Campuses and Quality Assurance
4.5 Application across campuses
The Quality Manual applies equally across all campuses. Localised variations can exist where thay have been clearly noted. Where possible, national flags (representing the UK, China and Malaysia campuses) have been added to draw attention to any links and sections which are of relevance to a particular campus. These will appear as follows:
for the University of Nottingham UK (UNUK) campus
for the University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC) campus
for the University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM) campus
Where there is no indication for a specific campus variation, this means that the content is equally applicable across all of UNUK, UNNC and UNM.
4.6 Navigation
The Quality Manual has been split into 12 categories, which can be accessed here [add link], with additional sections to cover Policies, Recent Changes and Coming Soon. These can be accessed through the tiles, or through the links in the navigation list on the left hand side of every page.
Individual elements of the Quality Manual can often not be considered in isolation. Relevant additional pages are provided as links within that page, where possible, plus it is often useful to look back at the ‘parent’ page and the ‘sibling’ or ‘child’ pages.
Where it is stated that Schools or students ‘should’ take particular actions or follow certain principles, this is a requirement with regulatory force across all of our campuses and must be complied with. I.e. please read ‘may’ or ‘should’ as ‘must’.  Please note, we are currently undertaking work in the Quality Manual to replace ‘should’ with ‘must’, but in the meanwhile please consider ‘should’ to mean ‘must’.
5.0 Related Policies
From July 2020, all Policies included within the Quality Manual have also been listed within a dedicated Policies section, which functions as a directory. This can be accessed by using the “Policies A - Z” button in the lower left corner of every page (within the Quality Manual)
6.0 Related Procedures
Please note that anyone can request a change to the Quality Manual by submitting a request to Quality and Standards Committee (QSC). For more information about this process, please consult the following:
Quality and Standards Committee
7.0 Version control and updates
To ensure that its content is constantly available and up-to-date, the Quality Manual is only available on the web. Users are free to print off their own copies but should remember that these may become quickly outdated.
The Quality Manual is reviewed each year to ensure that staff and students can be confident that all information contained in it is current.  To supplement this activity a rolling programme of comprehensive reviews for each section once every three years will be introduced from the 23/24 session.  New developments in external requirements, e.g., Office for Students, Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education, Malaysian Qualifications Agency, Ministry of Education in China, etc, may also result in a review of relevant sections within the Quality Manual.
7.1 Recent Changes and Coming Soon
The Quality Manual is not a static printed document; it is subject to change as policies are revised or guidance is updated. When changes are made to the Quality Manual, these are routinely logged in an area which can be accessed at any time by using the “Recent changes” button in the lower right corner of every page (within the Quality Manual).
Similarly, changes that have been approved but which are not live yet or which are being considered can be found in the ‘Coming Soon’ section of the Quality Manual.
Coming Soon
Recent and coming soon Quality Manual changes pages should be standing items on all Education and Student Experience committees.
Regular summaries of changes are also emailed directly to key contacts. It is School’s responsibility to notify QSC of changes to key contacts (e.g. if a new Director of Education and Student Experience is appointed). Also, if you wish to be added to this circulation list, please email
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
.
7.2 Version Control Table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework; Content also reviewed and updated to improve clarity.
QSC
July 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
31 July 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/prog-monitoring-and-review.aspx
Header: Programme monitoring and review
Intro: This section outlines the purpose and responsibilities of the Periodic Assurance and Continuous Enhancement Review (PACER) and monitoring. These pages are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Programme monitoring and review - The University of NottinghamProgramme monitoring and review
This section outlines the purpose and responsibilities of the Periodic Assurance and Continuous Enhancement Review (PACER) and monitoring. These pages are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Pages within this section
Periodic Assurance and Continuous Enhancement Review (PACER)
Monitoring
PGR monitoring
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
01 August 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/pgr-monitoring.aspx
Header: PGR monitoring
Intro: This page explains how research degree programmes are monitored, including links to important documentation and resources. This information is primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to research students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
PGR monitoring - The University of NottinghamPGR monitoring
This page explains how research degree programmes are monitored, including links to important documentation and resources. This information is primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to research students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
Includes:
provision; responsibilities; purpose
1.
On an annual basis, a Quantitative Data Set (QDS) will be provided to Schools in regard to their research degree programmes. The information will include:
admissions data
drop-out rates (terminations and withdrawals)
submission rates
successful completion rates.
2.
For comparative purposes, Schools will also be provided with aggregate data for their Faculty and for the institution as a whole. The same data set will be available to Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) and QSC will approach any Schools where the data suggested difficulties might exist in order to discuss the remedial action to be taken. QSC will also consider the institutional totals with a view to identifying any need for changes to policy or procedures.
3.
It will be left up to individual Schools to decide on a School procedure for the monitoring of research degree programmes. Typically, a School Postgraduate Students Committee or equivalent will consider the data in 1 above, along with any other relevant information (eg from a Student Staff Forum), and determine whether anything gives cause for concern. Where a problem is detected, this should then be brought to the attention of the School management through the School’s communication and decision-making channels.
4.
The University Educational Enhancement and Assurance Review process will be used to check that annual monitoring of research degree programmes is taking place in Schools and that effective use is being made of the results of the monitoring.
*PGR monitoring is currently on hold and will resume in 2022/23
Resources
Includes:
template for research degree programmes; link to the annual monitoring workspace
All Schools should use the following:
Research Monitoring Form
For more detailed information, please consult the following:
Monitoring - Workspace
Monitoring
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
21 September 2023||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/external-examiners-examinations-roles.aspx
Header: External examiners examinations roles
Intro: This section provides detailed information about External Examiners, the role of the School Examinations Officer and School Examination Boards. This information is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
External examiners examinations roles - The University of NottinghamExternal examiners examinations roles
This section provides detailed information about External Examiners, the role of the School Examinations Officer and School Examination Boards. This information is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Pages within this section
Appointment and responsibilities of External Examiners for taught programmes
School Examinations Officer role
School Examination Boards
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/professional-accreditation-reports.aspx
Header: Professional accreditation reports
Intro: This page provides information on the procedure surrounding professional accreditation reports, which may be useful for staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Professional accreditation reports - The University of NottinghamProfessional accreditation reports
This page provides information on the procedure surrounding professional accreditation reports, which may be useful for staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
Includes:
expectations of the School
Reports arising from reviews conducted by Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies (PSRBs) are valuable sources of information on the quality and standards of courses.
Schools are expected to take them fully into account as part of their own internal review processes and to report on the outcome.
Procedure
Includes:
notification; receipt of report; consideration of recommendations; key roles and responsibilities
1.
The School is notified by the Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies (PSRB) of its re-accreditation decision; if that is anything other than full approval then the Head of School must as a matter of urgency inform the Chair of Quality and Standards Committee (QSC), the Pro-Vice Chancellor (PVC) for Education and Student Experience and the Registrar;
Where a course is the responsibility of two or more Schools (e.g. joint honours) then the relevant Heads of School should agree a suitable means of dealing with the report so that all Schools involved have a full opportunity to consider it, but only one 'School response' (para iv) should be produced.
"Full approval" means that the accrediting body expresses no reservations about the quality and standards of the course(s). It is the normal expectation in certain subject areas (e.g. Engineering) that full approval will only be granted when a course has produced graduates. Until that point, "Provisional Accreditation" is granted by the PSRB. This University procedure also applies to 'provisional accreditation'.
2.
the School receives the PSRB report;
3.
the School considers the recommendations of the PSRB report through its existing committee structure and agrees any actions;
4.
the Head of School sends a copy of the full PSRB report together with a written School response where required (comprising a note of actions taken or planned, and any other relevant points) to Quality and Student Record systems team, Registry and Academic Affairs for consideration on behalf of QSC via
RA-Accreditation@nottingham.ac.uk
5.
QSC confirms that it is content with the School response, or if not engages in dialogue with the Head of School to resolve the issue;
6.
where approprate, the School will take PSRB reports into consideration in its next full Educational Enhancement and Assurance Review.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
24 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/apprenticeship-integrated-end-point-assessment.aspx
Header: Apprenticeship Integrated End-Point Assessment
Intro: This section provides detailed information about Apprenticeship Integrated End-Point Assessment and associated policies. This information is only relevant to staff and students at the UK campus.
Content:
Apprenticeship Integrated End-Point Assessment - The University of NottinghamApprenticeship Integrated End-Point Assessment
This section provides detailed information about Apprenticeship Integrated End-Point Assessment and associated policies. This information is only relevant to staff and students at the UK campus.Pages within this section
Policy on conflict of interest
Independent Assessors role
External Assessors role
External Examiners role
End-point assessment process
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
12 July 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/academic-regulations/pol-occasional-teachers.aspx
Header: Policy on occasional teachers
Intro: This page contains the University's policy on the appointment and utilisation of occasional teachers who are not academic members of staff or research students at the University. Its contents are applicable across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Policy on occasional teachers - The University of NottinghamPolicy on occasional teachers
This page contains the University's policy on the appointment and utilisation of occasional teachers who are not academic members of staff or research students at the University. Its contents are applicable across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1. Scope
Includes:
definition of occasional teachers
1.
Occasional teachers are defined as individuals who undertake teaching in the University but who are not:
Academic members of staff of the University, or
Research students of the University
More information on this group can be found here:
Policy on students who teach
2.
The policy below only applies to occasional teachers who:
have no previous experience of teaching in post-compulsory education (and therefore the policy only applies during the individual’s first engagement by the University), and
have main responsibility for teaching all students on a module or a portion of a module amounting to at least 5 credits (e.g. 50% of a 10 credit module).
Schools should, though, still have some means of monitoring the performance of occasional teachers who do not meet these criteria e.g. sporadically observing occasional teachers while engaged in teaching.
2. Policy
Includes:
School responsibilities; training; mentors; feedback on performance; assessments
1.
In selecting an occasional teacher and allocating teaching tasks, the School should ensure that the occasional teacher has the appropriate skills, experience and knowledge in the subject area being taught.
2.
On appointment as an occasional teacher, an individual training needs assessment should be undertaken by a member of the School's academic staff. Training may take whichever form is deemed appropriate by the School (including courses provided within the School, by Professional Development, or by organisations external to the University) in light of this assessment and the sort of teaching being undertaken by the occasional teacher.
3.
All occasional teachers should be assigned a mentor, who must be a member of academic staff, who can provide guidance and advice.
4.
Occasional teachers should receive constructive and regular feedback on their performance (including strengths and weaknesses) by the module convenor or another member of academic staff. The occasional teacher’s performance should be monitored over the duration of the teaching and this should include classroom observation.
5.
In respect of any assessment carried out by occasional teachers, Schools should ensure that
They are supervised by a named member of academic staff, and
They are provided with training appropriate to their role in the assessment process, and
Assessments that contribute to the final module/course mark are moderated by a member of academic staff.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
29 May 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/academic-regulations/pol-students-who-teach.aspx
Header: Policy on students who teach
Intro: This page contains the University's policy on the management and utilisation of postgraduate students as teachers. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Policy on students who teach - The University of NottinghamPolicy on students who teach
This page contains the University's policy on the management and utilisation of postgraduate students as teachers. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1. Policy
Includes:
quality of teaching; skills and training; monitoring; duties; payment; obligations
This policy and guidelines should be reproduced in each School's handbook for research students, and expanded with details of local arrangements.
1.1
A Head of School may allow a postgraduate research student to undertake limited teaching* duties on a part-time basis within the student's own School, providing this policy and the guidelines are observed. For the purposes of this document such teachers are referred to as "Postgraduate Student Teachers".
* Here "teaching" includes formal lectures, seminars, tutorials, demonstrating in laboratory classes etc.
1.2.
The quality of the teaching provided by a Postgraduate Student Teacher must be broadly equivalent to that which might be expected of a new full-time member of academic staff - bearing in mind that Postgraduate Student Teachers will not have had the same level or amount of training as new full-time academic staff, and that their teaching duties are limited in scope.
1.3.
A Postgraduate Student Teacher must have appropriate skills, experience and knowledge in the subject area being taught.
1.4.
A Postgraduate Student Teacher must have received appropriate training before undertaking their duties.
1.5.
The quality of the work of the Postgraduate Student Teacher must be monitored so that any problems can be resolved without detriment to the students being taught.
1.6.
The nature and extent of the Postgraduate Student Teacher's duties are limited, as set out below.
1.7.
A Postgraduate Student Teacher will be paid an appropriate rate for the teaching activity.
1.8.
A Postgraduate Student Teacher may normally only be involved in the teaching of modules aimed primarily at undergraduate students. It is permissible for a Postgraduate Student Teacher to be involved in the teaching of postgraduate students if they have the skills, experience and knowledge appropriate to that level of teaching.
1.9.
A Postgraduate Student Teacher's teaching duties must not interfere with their own studies, and their Supervisor must give prior assent to any such work on an annual basis to ensure that their ability to complete their thesis on time is not affected.
1.10.
Unless specified in the terms of a studentship, postgraduate research students are not obligated to undertake any teaching.
2. Responsibility of the Head of School
Includes:
assessment of capability; maximum amount of teaching activities; supervisor consultation; performance monitoring; postgraduate student teachers assessment of teaching capability document
2.1.
It is the responsibility of the Head of School to ensure that the requirements of the policy and guidelines are observed, and usually a named, senior member of the School's academic staff should be identified as having direct responsibility for this. These responsibilities include ensuring that:
2.1.1.
The School publishes its policy and process for the recruitment of Postgraduate Student Teachers, and gives all its postgraduate research students a fair opportunity to be considered for any such work
2.1.2.
An assessment is made of the teaching capability of any Postgraduate Student Teacher before they start teaching, including their ability to communicate clearly and effectively
2.1.3.
On the basis of such an assessment they are given appropriate training
2.1.4.
The maximum permissible amount of teaching activities (inclusive of preparation, delivery and marking) is 6 hours per week (averaged over 12 months), subject to the requirements of any scholarship they hold
2.1.5.
The supervisor(s) has been consulted and has assented to the arrangement
2.1.6.
The performance of the Postgraduate Student Teacher is monitored.
PG student teachers assessment of capability form
3. Appointment and payment
Includes:
written specification requirements; hourly basis
3.1.
A Postgraduate Student Teacher must be given a clear specification of their teaching duties, total hours required, and pay, in writing. The document must also make clear the expectation regarding training, preparatory work, attendance at course/module meetings, and marking if any.
3.2.
Postgraduate Student Teachers should be paid on an hourly basis according to the specified duties. If the work comprises demonstrating, the student should be paid at the relevant standard University rate. The hours worked should be based on a realistic assessment of the total amount of time to be worked by the Postgraduate Student Teacher including preparation time, contact time with students, marking, attendance at module meetings etc.
4. Training, induction and support
Includes:
mentor; hands-on experience; feedback
4.1.
On appointment as a Postgraduate Student Teacher, an individual training needs assessment must be undertaken by a member of the School's academic staff. It is expected that unless the postgraduate student has direct relevant teaching experience, training will be required. The training needs analysis must be documented (sample form available) and written confirmation provided by the Postgraduate Student Teacher and the module convenor that the training has been completed satisfactorily prior to any teaching being undertaken.
4.2.
Training may take a variety of forms (ranging from practical training on how to use equipment to more formal courses provided within the School, by the Graduate School or organisations external to the University) and will be determined by the sort of teaching being undertaken by the Postgraduate Student Teacher.
4.3.
All Postgraduate Student Teachers should be assigned a mentor, such as the module convenor, who must be a member of academic staff, who can provide guidance and advice.
4.4.
Postgraduate Student Teachers involved in demonstrating should be given hands-on experience with the equipment concerned and should be familiarised with health and safety issues.
4.5.
Postgraduate Student Teachers should receive constructive and regular feedback on their performance (including strengths and weaknesses) by the module convenor or another member of full-time academic staff. The Postgraduate Student Teacher's performance should be monitored over the duration of the teaching and this should include classroom observation.
5. Involvement in assessment
Includes:
responsibilities; moderation by academic staff
5.1.
Assessment lies at the heart of the maintenance of academic standards, and the involvement of a Postgraduate Student Teacher in assessment must be limited and carefully controlled.
5.2.
In respect of any assessment carried out by Postgraduate Student Teachers, Heads of School must ensure that:
5.2.1.
They are supervised by a named member of academic staff
5.2.2.
They are provided with training appropriate to their role in the assessment process
5.2.3.
Assessments that contribute to the final module/course mark are:
a)
Moderated by a member of academic staff. Example methods of moderation include:
Sampling, either by an external examiner or by an internal second marker;
Additional marking of borderlines, firsts and fails
Additional marking where there is significant disparity between the different elements of assessment for an individual student, in a unit or across the programme
Additional marking where there is significant disparity between the marks of different markers in a particular unit or programme.
b)
Limited, as far as practicable, to those elements of assessment that do not contribute to the degree classification
5.2.4.
Such assessments which do not contribute to the final module/course mark are second marked where appropriate on a sampling basis by a member of academic staff
6. Involvement in personal tutoring
Includes:
expectations; exceptions; Student Teachers Assessment of Teaching Capability document
6.1.
The normal expectation is that postgraduates will not act as personal tutors
6.2.
Schools may, however, employ postgraduate students as personal tutors where the following conditions apply:
6.3.1.
Where the School employs the postgraduate student as a teacher in the context of operating a School-wide policy of allocating personal tutors to students they teach
6.3.2.
Where the School makes arrangements for the training and support of postgraduate students both as teachers and as personal tutors, and allocates paid time for personal tutoring.
Forms:
PG student teachers assessment of capability form
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
29 May 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/appointment-responsibilities-external-examiners-for-taught-programmes.aspx
Header: Appointment and responsibilities of External Examiners for taught programmes
Intro: This page sets out the appointment and role of External Examiners for taught programmes. This information is primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Appointment and responsibilities of External Examiners for taught programmes - The University of NottinghamAppointment and responsibilities of External Examiners for taught programmes
This page sets out the appointment and role of External Examiners for taught programmes. This information is primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.For information relating to the role and appointment of examiners for research degree programmes, please consult the following:
Role and appointment of examiners for research degree programmes
1. Appointment
Includes:
School responsibilities; responsibilities of the University; collaboration implications
1.1
Schools are responsible for providing nominations of external examiners for their undergraduate and taught postgraduate courses on an annual basis. Council has the power to receive nominations and approve such appointments, and discharges its responsibilities in this regard through the Quality and Standards Committee (QSC).
1.2
The University’s Charter requires that all assessments for programmes and modules forming part of the programme of studies required for University Degrees, Diplomas and Certificates must involve one or more independent external examiners. The specific responsibilities of each external examiner will be clearly specified in letters of appointment.
1.3
Where the award is made by the University of Nottingham and the programme is collaborative, the appointment of examiner(s) will be the responsibility of the University of Nottingham. Appointments of examiners for joint and dual awards will be determined when the partnership agreement is negotiated.  Where the external examiner is appointed to a collaborative programme, the report may be made available to the partner institution on a confidential basis.
1.4
The School has a duty to ensure that a sufficient number of external examiners is appointed to ensure adequate expertise is available to cover all the major areas of the syllabus being examined, including the requirements of professional, statutory and regulatory bodies which may also include requirements that extend beyond the confines of the syllabus.
1.5
The School has a duty to ensure there is an appropriate match between the numbers of external examiners nominated and the quantity of material being examined.
1.6
Where programmes are offered across one or more of the University’s campuses, the remit of the examiners appointed should cover all relevant campuses so that they are in a position to provide a judgment on the comparability of quality and standards of provision and performance across the campuses.
2. Main responsibilities of external examiners
2.1
The main responsibilities of external examiners are:
To provide informative comment and recommendations on whether the programme(s) and/or module(s) in the remit of the external examiner meet the threshold academic standards set for its awards in accordance with the frameworks for higher education qualifications and applicable subject benchmark statements, including any requirements of professional, statutory and regulatory bodies which may also include requirements that extend beyond the confines of the syllabus;
To provide input to professional, statutory and regulatory bodies in cases where they specifically require external examiner input, which may also include requirements that extend beyond the confines of the syllabus;
To provide informative comment and recommendations upon whether the assessment process measures student achievement rigorously and fairly against the intended outcomes of the programme(s) and is conducted in line with the relevant policies and regulations;
To check whether the academic standards and achievements of students are comparable with those in other UK higher education institutions of which the external examiners have experience.  In addition, examiners are asked to provide a judgement on the comparability of standards of provision and performance across the Nottingham UK, Malaysia and China campuses, where they are appointed for courses which are offered at more than one of the University’s campuses.
3. Enhancement of quality
3.1
In addition to the responsibilities outlined in the previous section, external examiners are asked to provide informative comment and recommendations on any good practice and innovation relating to learning, teaching and assessment they observe, and also opportunities to enhance the quality of the learning opportunities provided to students.
4. National criteria for appointment and termination of contract
Includes:
requirements; non-Higher Education backgrounds; the right to review appointments
4.1
External examiners can be appointed if they show appropriate evidence, which is likely to be by providing an outline career summary rather than a full curriculum vitae, of satisfying the following criteria:
I.
knowledge and understanding of UK sector agreed reference points for the maintenance of academic standards and assurance and enhancement of quality
II.
competence and experience in the fields covered by the programme of study, or parts thereof
III.
relevant academic and/or professional qualifications to at least the level of the qualification being externally examined, and/or extensive practitioner experience where appropriate
IV.
competence and experience relating to designing and operating a variety of assessment tasks appropriate to the subject and operating assessment procedures
V.
sufficient standing, credibility and breadth of experience within the discipline to be able to command the respect of peers and, where appropriate, professional peers
VI.
familiarity with the standard to be expected of students to achieve the award that is to be assessed
VII.
fluency in English, and where programmes are delivered and assessed in languages other than English, fluency in the relevant language(s) (unless other secure arrangements are in place to ensure that external examiners are provided with the information to make their judgements)
VIII.
meeting applicable criteria set by professional, statutory or regulatory bodies
IX.
awareness of current developments in the design and delivery of relevant curricula
X.
competence and experience relating to the enhancement of the student experience.
4.2
Nominees from backgrounds other than higher education, for example business, industry or the professions, may not be able to fulfil all the criteria above but would nonetheless be able to make a significant contribution as an external examiner. Consideration can be given to such nominations being approved by Quality and Standards Committee (QSC), in particular where the appointee may be part of a team or examiners, or where the School is able to confirm that appropriate training and support will be provided.
4.3
In view of the importance of external examiners’ reports in the quality assurance process, the University reserves the right to review the appointment of an external examiner who fails to fulfil the terms of contract, or if a conflict of interest arises which cannot be satisfactorily resolved.
5. Restrictions on appointment
Includes:
categories and circumstances; reappointment restrictions
5.1
Anyone who is included in the following categories or circumstances may not be appointed:
I.
a member of a governing body or committee of the appointing institution or one of its collaborative partners, or a current employee of the appointing institution or one of its collaborative partners
II.
anyone with a close professional, contractual or personal relationship with a member of staff or student involved with the programme of study
III.
anyone required to assess colleagues who are recruited as students to the programme of study
IV.
anyone who is, or knows they will be, in a position to influence significantly the future of students on the programme of study
V.
anyone who is, or has been significantly involved in current substantive collaborative research activities with a member of staff closely involved in the delivery, management or assessment of the programme(s) or modules in question within the last three years
VI.
former staff or students of the institution unless a period of five years has elapsed and all students taught by or with the external examiner have completed their programme(s)
VII.
a reciprocal arrangement involving cognate programmes at another institution
VIII.
the succession of an external examiner by a colleague from the examiner’s home department and institution
IX.
the appointment of more than one external examiner from the same department of the same institution.
5.2
No external examiner may be reappointed for the same or similar course within five years of finishing their previous appointment. Such reappointments will only be permitted in exceptional circumstances, with the approval of Quality and Standards Committee (QSC).
5.3
External examiners should normally hold no more than one other external examinership during the period of their appointment.
6. Confirmation and period of appointment
6.1
External Examiners can be appointed on an annual basis up to a normal maximum of four years.  However, this period can be exceptionally extended by one year to ensure continuity, for example where a programme is being brought to an end. To extend an appointment, a written statement with reasons for the extension should be submitted for the approval of Quality and Standards Committee (QSC).
6.2
Every new external examiner will receive a formal letter of appointment from Registry and Academic Affairs, Quality and Student Management System Team setting out the period of office, the programme(s) and/or module(s) to be examined, specific responsibilities and the fee. External examiners will also be given the link to the University’s Code of Practice for External Examiners and a web page containing relevant information.
7. Details of external examiner appointments
Includes:
responsibilities of the Head of School; external examiners' report availability
7.1
The Head of School is required to ensure that the name, position and institution of external examiners is provided to students in programme and module information (which may be via the publication of examiners’ reports in the Student Staff Forum or equivalent). This information will also include a statement where an external examiner has been appointed to fulfil a role on behalf of a professional body.
7.2
Schools should ensure that external examiners’ reports are made available in full to students, with the sole exception of any confidential report made directly, and separately, to the Vice-Chancellor. For this reason external examiners will be asked not to identify any individual students or staff by name in their reports.
7.3
Schools should ensure that their students are informed that it is inappropriate for them to contact external examiners direct, and that other appropriate mechanisms are available for them to raise concerns regarding their individual performance in assessments, for example the Appeals or Complaints procedures.
8. Preparation of external examiners for their role
Includes:
responsibility of Registry and Academic Affairs; appointments with no previous experience; responsibilities of the Head of School
8.1
Registry and Academic Affairs ensures that all external examiners are
informed about the University’s procedures and policy which may be by provision of an opportunity to attend a University induction event, and the value accorded by the institution to the feedback from external examiners as part of the University’s broader system of quality assurance and enhancement.
8.2
Where the individual appointed has no previous experience as an external examiner for any institution, the School should ensure that the appointment is, if practicable, made to a team of examiners, or that with prior agreement a more experienced external examiner will act as a mentor. The School should ensure that all external examiners newly appointed should be given the opportunity to attend an induction event, to allow them to become familiar with the University and its assessment procedures.
8.2
Heads of School are responsible for ensuring that external examiners are given the relevant material they require, such as programme specifications, marking conventions, degree classification information, information on the course structure, syllabus, module details (where appropriate), a copy of the previous external examiner’s final report and relevant University Regulations. Where appropriate, information about fitness to practice procedures should also be included. They are also responsible for ensuring that external examiners are given adequate time to carry out the role.
9. Detailed responsibilities of external examiners
Includes:
suitability of type and content of assessments; adherence to assessment procedure; endorsing assessment outcomes; annual written report; adherence to PSRB requirements
9.1
External Examiners are responsible for assuring the University on the suitability of the type and content of assessments for the subject, the students, the level of study and the learning outcomes being tested.
9.2
External Examiners are responsible for assuring the University that the assessment procedures being followed (including marking criteria and marking schemes and the consideration of extenuating circumstances) are fair and reasonable, protect academic standards, and are in line with the University’s own regulations and procedures.
9.3
External Examiners are responsible for endorsing assessment outcomes. In doing so, they need to be assured that marking criteria have been applied rigorously and fairly and that the awards being made to students reflect the standards set by comparable UK universities. In the event of an External Examiner being unwilling to endorse the outcomes of an assessment process, the matter should be referred to the Registrar.
9.4
External Examiners are responsible for providing the University with an annual written report in compliance with the standard requirements outlined in the report form and a final summary report at the end of their appointment.
9.5
Where there are Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies (PSRB) requirements outside of the normal PSRB-led processes (e.g. there is a requirement for an annual report to the PSRB from the External Examiner), External Examiners are responsible for assuring the university on adherence to Professional Statutory and Regulatory Body requirements.
10. Powers of external examiners
Includes:
access to documents; information about assessment procedures; meetings with staff and students; access to examination scripts, coursework and other marked assessments; right to attend meetings; Board decisions and validity implications
10.1
External Examiners must have whatever access they deem necessary to any documents (including drafts of examination papers, coursework titles or other forms of assessment) with a view to discharging their responsibilities in 9.1 and (where applicable) 9.5 of the previous section.
10.2
External Examiners must be provided with information about assessment procedures and other procedures sufficient for discharging their responsibilities in 9.2 and (where applicable) 9.5 of the previous section. Any queries External Examiners may have about assessment procedures should be answered in a timely, accurate and comprehensive fashion.
10.3
External Examiners may request meetings with groups of staff and students from the Nottingham and international campuses (eg via video-conferencing) in order to contextualise their judgements. Any reasonable requests of this kind should be facilitated as far as is practicable.  Where it is not logistically possible to meet international campus students annually, an opportunity should be given a minimum of once every three years.
10.4
External Examiners must have whatever access they deem necessary to examination scripts, completed coursework and other marked student assessments with a view to discharging their responsibilities in 9.3 and (where applicable) 9.5 of the previous section. External Examiners should not normally be involved in adjusting individual marks either prior to, or at the examination board, unless there are exceptional circumstances, for example in cases where a poor question has been included on an examination paper, to compensate for which all the marks for the whole suite of answer papers need to be raised by a certain percentage.
10.5
External Examiners have the right to attend meetings of Boards of Examiners and this will normally be necessary in order to discharge their responsibilities. Attendance can be either in person or virtually (e.g. via video-conferencing).
10.6
Decisions of the Board of Examiners are not valid unless formally endorsed by an External Examiner.  If particular circumstances arise in regard to individual students that delay a decision on their assessment outcome (i.e. beyond the date of the Board of Examiners’ meeting), the External Examiner may delegate endorsement of the final decision to the Chair of the Board of Examiners.
11. External examiner's report
Includes:
requirements; Microsoft Forms report, annual report, final summary report; submission and contact details; next steps
11.1
The External Examiner is required to provide an annual report in a digital format, and a final summary report at the end of the period of appointment via Microsoft Forms.  The report form is available on request from the email address below.  More information on External Examiners for taught programmes can be found on the link:
External examiners for taught programmes
11.2
The External Examiner's report should be submitted through Microsoft forms to Registry and Academic Affaris, Quality and Student Management Systems Team, who will then arrange for the fee due to be paid.
The report form is available on request by emailing:
external-examiners@nottingham.ac.uk
11.3
Registry and Academic Affairs, Quality and Student Management Team will forward copies of the report to the Head of School (for action).
12. Format of the external examiner's report
Includes:
report explicitly on standards, assessments and awards; may also make a written report on confidential matters
12.1
In their Report, the External Examiner is asked to report explicitly on standards, assessments and awards using the standardised report form provided and to draw attention in particular to any good practice, or areas requiring attention. If, to fulfil additional PSRB requirements as indicated in Section 9.5 (in the responsibilities of external examiners section above), additional information is required this should be submitted as supplementary material to the main report.
12.2
The External Examiner may also make a written report on confidential matters to the Vice-Chancellor.  In exceptional cases, where the concern is systemic and not a one-off case of ineffective practice, and the external examiner has exhausted all published applicable internal procedures, including the submission of a confidential report to the Vice-Chancellor, the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA)’s concerns scheme or relevant professional, statutory or regulatory body, may be informed.
More information on making a complaint to the QAA can be found here:
QAA - how to make a complaint
13. Dealing with the external examiner's report
Includes:
School responsibilities; opportunities for feedback; circulation; communication requirements; responsibilities of Quality and Standards Committee
13.1
It is the School's responsibility to ensure that the annual and final reports comply with the standard requirements outlined in the report form and are available to, and considered by the School's Student Staff Forum or equivalent, and Quality and Standards Committee (QSC). If an external examiner fails to submit an annual report within a reasonable period of time, this may constitute grounds for not re-appointing the external examiner in a subsequent year.
13.2
To assist Schools in fulfilling their responsibility, Registry and Academic Affairs, Quality and Student Management SystemsTeam will notify them annually of any outstanding reports.
13.3
The School should provide an opportunity for the external examiner(s) to give feedback arising from the performance of his/her duties, which may be either or oral or written, and for the School to provide information to the examiner(s) on how the School has addressed issues raised in any previous report(s) from the examiner(s).
13.4
Where programmes are offered at the International Campuses, Schools should ensure that a copy of the external examiner report is available to the International Campus and that there is International Campus involvement in the response submitted to the external examiner and University.
13.5
Subsequently the School will forward each report of an external examiner, together with the written report on how the School has addressed the issues raised in it, to Registry and Academic Affiars, Quality and Student Management Systems Team.
13.6
It is the duty of the School to ensure that any external professional body is informed if their requirements form the subject of an external examiner’s report.
13.7
A letter is to be sent to each external examiner by the School on the actions or otherwise which have resulted from the report. A copy of each letter should be forwarded to Registry and Academic Affairs, Quality and Student Managment Systems Team.
13.8
It is the duty of the QSC to assure itself that any comments or recommendations of an external examiner have been addressed by the School, and if it is not satisfied, to seek to resolve the matter through a dialogue with the School.
Exceptional regulations applied in response to Covid-19
Please be aware that the following Exceptional Regulations were developed and applied during academic year 2019/20 in response to the coronavirus pandemic. These records applied to all of the University's campuses and should be read in conjunction with all other content on this page.
Covid-19 External Examiner Extensions
The active application of these arrangements then ceased at the beginning of academic year 2020/21 (except for exceptional cases to help with continuity purposes in academic year 2020/21 only). Any outcomes from their application during academic year 2019/20 will, however, continue to be honoured and used in all decisions regarding those affected.
For more information about the Exceptional Regulations as a whole, please consult the following:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - 2019/20 - 2020/21
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/pol-penalties-for-late-submission.aspx
Header: Policy on penalties for late submission of assessed work
Intro: This page contains the University's policy on penalties for the late submission of assessed work. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Policy on penalties for late submission of assessed work - The University of NottinghamPolicy on penalties for late submission of assessed work
This page contains the University's policy on penalties for the late submission of assessed work. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Essential information
Includes:
standard deadline for submission of coursework; deduction of marks upon expiry
The standard deadline for submission of coursework on all campuses should be 15:00 local time.
As a response to COVID-19 deadlines may be varied and students will be advised where this applies to them.
A deduction of five percentage points i.e. 5% of the maximum possible mark (100%) shall be imposed upon expiry of the deadline, and an additional 5% per subsequent 24 hour period (weekends and University closure days do not count as days where a 5% is to be imposed).
For example, an original mark of 67% would be successively reduced to 62%, 57%, 52%, 47% etc. It is understood that, exceptionally, there may be academic grounds for different penalties to apply.
Policy
Includes:
university procedure for coursework submitted late; penalty for late submission; extensions when a student is likely to miss a deadline; assessment regulations
The University follows the following procedure when coursework is submitted late:
1.
When coursework (including essays, laboratory reports, projects, performance or other similar activities) is to constitute part of the whole of the assessment for a module, students should be told in writing at the start of the module the deadline by which the coursework is to be submitted and the penalty for late submission. Deadlines should be set taking account of student workload,and must avoid the revision period. (In certain cases, deadlines during the examination period may be acceptable.)  Friday deadlines should be avoided where practicable.
2.
If coursework is submitted late without a valid extenuating circumstance claim being approved, it should be marked in the normal way, and a penalty then applied. For the benefit of the student, external examiners and others, the original mark and the penalised mark should both be clearly indicated to the student when work is returned. The pre-penalty mark should be used as part of the School/Department’s feedback and moderation processes and the post-penalty mark should be used in any progression or award calculation and will appear on a student’s Transcript or Diploma Supplement. To minimise disputes about timing or submission, coursework should be date-stamped and receipted in some way.
3.
The standard University penalty for late submission should be 5% per day, until the mark reaches zero.
A deduction of 5% of the actual mark achieved shall be imposed upon expiry of the deadline, and an additional 5% per subsequent 24 hour period (weekends and University closure days do not count as days where a 5% is to be imposed). It is understood that, exceptionally, there may be academic grounds for different penalties to apply, with the approval of the Head of School/Department, for example, when solutions are to be discussed on a particular date, so that work submitted after this date is essentially worthless.
4.
The standard penalties are intended to be very easy to understand, to be sufficiently severe to discourage deliberate late submission (bargaining the penalty against potential improvements to the work), but to encourage late submission in preference to no submission. Any different penalties should, if possible have the same intentions.
5.
A student who is likely to miss a deadline should discuss their situation as early as possible with their personal tutor and with the member of staff responsible for the coursework. Extensions to deadlines should not be allowed without extenuating circumstances to ensure fairness to those students who do manage to complete their assignments in good time the procedures laid down under the Assessment Regulations and Extenuating Circumstances policy should be followed.
6.
The application of a late penalty may mean that a student fails the relevant piece of work and/or module and this may affect the student’s overall average for the relevant stage of their programme of study so that reassessment is necessary before the student can be considered for progression or award.
7.
In circumstances where students have the right to a reassessment as outlined in the relevant undergraduate or postgraduate study regulations, Schools/Departments will determine the form of reassessment.
8.
Schools/Departments may, where without penalty the work is a pass and/or where it is not appropriate to set a new piece of work use the pre-penalty mark as the reassessment mark at the exam board instead of requiring the student to take further assessment. The pre-penalty mark will be utilised for progression purposes only.   The decision on whether or not it is appropriate to set a new piece of work is at School discretion and based on the pedagogy or duration of a particular assessment.
For more information about the assessment regulations, please consult the following:
Assessment regulations
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 January 2023||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/pol-legibility-of-work-for-assessment.aspx
Header: Policy on the legibility of work submitted for assessment
Intro: This page contains the University's policy on the legibility of all work that is submitted for assessment. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Policy on the legibility of work submitted for assessment - The University of NottinghamPolicy on the legibility of work submitted for assessment
This page contains the University's policy on the legibility of all work that is submitted for assessment. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Policy
Includes:
responsibilities of the candidate; candidate refusal; candidate agreement and actions
It is the responsibility of the candidate to take steps to ensure that all work submitted for assessment is legible including, where relevant, seeking appropriate support and guidance from Academic Support.
Where an examination script is illegible to the extent that the ability of the examiner to assess the work is impaired, the candidate should be asked by the School offering the module to produce a typed transcript of all/part of the work.
If the candidate refuses to produce a typed transcript, the work will be assessed on the basis of the legible parts only and a mark awarded accordingly.
If the candidate agrees to produce a typed transcript, it should be done following the procedure outlined (in the section) below.
Examination scripts
Includes:
self-identification; illegible handwriting
Students who have dyslexia, other types of disability or a long-term medical condition are encouraged to identify themselves to Disability Support Services
1
and on submission of relevant documentary evidence and/or assessment by Disability Support Services
1
, assessment arrangements are made. This may include the use of computers in examinations.
1
or equivalent at University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM) or University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC).
Illegible handwriting is not something Disability Support Services can assess or support. Students are advised to speak to their personal tutor, regarding support in this area. It is anticipated that this approach reduces to a minimum the number of cases of illegible examination scripts. Where an illegible examination script is received, the procedure outlined in the Procedure for candidate typing transcripts section should be followed.
For more information about Disability Support Services, please consult the following:
Disability Support Services
Procedure for candidate typing transcripts
Includes:
restrictions; costs
The candidate should not introduce any unauthorised materials into the room and examination conditions should be observed.
Candidates should be told that they should not attempt to omit or include any words that were not in the original script.
The transcript can be typed by the candidate under supervision, or by an appropriate member of staff with the candidate dictating.
Any costs incurred in the production of the transcript should be borne by the candidate.
Coursework
Wherever possible, Schools should request that all coursework is
word-processed.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
09 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/marking-by-number.aspx
Header: Marking by number
Intro: This page contains the University's marking by number principles. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Marking by number - The University of NottinghamMarking by number
This page contains the University's marking by number principles. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Introduction and School responsibilities
Marking by numbers (or anonymous marking) for all formal written examinations was adopted throughout the University from the 1996/97 session. An outline of the system is given in the next section.
Schools should ensure that students are given information regarding where in the assessment process anonymity ends. As a minimum, anonymity should normally be retained until marking and internal moderation has been completed.
System outline
1.
All formal written examinations should be included with the exception of multiple choice papers marked by Optical Mark Recognition (OMR) where marking by number is not appropriate. The system does not apply to pieces of coursework or class tests, although Schools may decide to devise a way of including these.
2.
The student ID number is used to identify students.
3.
Answer books with a fold-down flap under which the candidate's name is written are used. Using this type of answer book provides a safe method of marking by number as the name on each script can be revealed if necessary.
4.
The name is revealed following agreement of a mark. There are various ways of doing this: the flap need not be opened as a list of names and numbers provided electronically from Campus Solutions can be used to transcribe marks. Marks considered at the Examiners' meeting will be listed by name so that extenuating circumstances may easily be reported.
5.
In the examination room there will be two copies of the attendance register, one with name and number and the other with number only.  The numbers only register must be enclosed with the scripts for use within the School, while the name and number register will be returned to the Examinations Office with the attendance cards. This procedure is outlined clearly in the notes for invigilators which is circulated to all Schools a few weeks before the examination period.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
08 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/concerns-complaints-and-appeals/complaints.aspx
Header: Complaints
Intro: This section contains the University's policies in relation to complaints, including those from applicants and current students. These pages are primarily directed at staff and students (current and prospective) across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses but may also be of interest to the general public.
Content:
Complaints - The University of NottinghamComplaints
This section contains the University's policies in relation to complaints, including those from applicants and current students. These pages are primarily directed at staff and students (current and prospective) across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses but may also be of interest to the general public.Pages within this section
Policy on applicant complaints
Applicant complaints procedure
Student complaints code of practice (excludes apprentices)
Policy on student complaints
Apprenticeship complaints policy
Policy to instigate an investigation by an independent person following a complaint to the Students' Union
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 July 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/concerns-complaints-and-appeals/academic-appeals.aspx
Header: Academic appeals
Intro: This section contains academic-related appeal policies and procedural guidance. These pages are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Academic appeals - The University of NottinghamAcademic appeals
This section contains academic-related appeal policies and procedural guidance. These pages are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Pages within this section
Student academic appeals code of practice
Policy on academic appeals
Degree classification appeals
F1 ARCP Outcome 4 Appeal Procedure
Extenuating circumstances
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
22 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/admissions/admissions-feedback-appeals-complaints.aspx
Header: Admissions feedback, appeals and complaints
Intro: This page contains information on the procedure for feedback, reviews and complaints related to admissions. Its content is primarily directed at applicants but may also be of interest to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Admissions feedback, appeals and complaints - The University of NottinghamAdmissions feedback, appeals and complaints
This page contains information on the procedure for feedback, reviews and complaints related to admissions. Its content is primarily directed at applicants but may also be of interest to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Disclaimers
Includes:
legislation implications; correspondence with the applicant
The University of Nottingham receives a considerable number of applications per place and as entry is competitive, it is, regrettably, unable to make every applicant an offer.
Due to the requirements of the Data Protection Act and the University's policy on disclosure, the University will only correspond on any issue regarding an application with the applicant themselves, unless the applicant has provided written permission for the University to discuss their application with another person (for example, a parent, guardian or school adviser) or the person is listed as the undergraduate applicant's nominated contact on UCAS.
Feedback
Includes:
statement of feedback
All unsuccessful applicants will receive a statement of feedback on their application record, which gives the specific reason for the application outcome. Due to the large volumes of applications received, we are unable to provide more detailed feedback in addition to this.
Review
Includes:
right of appeal; timeframes; additional relevant information
There is no right of appeal against the outcome of an admissions decision.
However, if additional relevant information can be provided by an applicant in support of their application - which was unavailable when the application was originally submitted - the University will take this into consideration and may review the application on the basis of such additional relevant information.
To provide additional information, please contact us using this
enquiry form
. This should be done within 4 weeks of the admissions decision or before relevant UCAS / University deadlines, whichever is sooner. The additional information should be provided together with an explanation of why this was not available when the application was originally submitted.
Complaints
Includes:
applicant rights; contact details
Applicants have the right to express their dissatisfaction with the processing of their application.
Complaints should be made following the Policy on applicant complaints. For more information, please consult the following:
Policy on applicant complaints
If you wish to make a complaint, please email:
admissions-complaints@nottingham.ac.uk
Additional links
Policy on applicant complaints
Applicant complaints procedure
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK
Admission queries UNUK
UNNC
Admission queries UNNC
UNM
Admissions queries UNM
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
21 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/personal-tutoring-student-support-and-development/safeguarding.aspx
Header: Safeguarding
Intro: This page provides a link to the University Safeguarding Policy and the Report and Support process. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK campuses.
Content:
Safeguarding - The University of NottinghamSafeguarding
This page provides a link to the University Safeguarding Policy and the Report and Support process. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK campuses.1.0 Purpose
This page serves to help staff and students to access the University of Nottingham Safeguarding policy.
2.0 Key Principles
2.1 Safeguarding Policy
The link to the Safeguarding Policy is provided in the ‘Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures’ section below.
In summary, this guidance aims to ensure that adults and children at risk (including students under the age of 18), and all those who work with them, are safe and appropriately supported within our institution and the activities we organise.
We aim to achieve this by minimising risk of harm from discrimination, bullying, accidents, injury and abuse in all its forms.
The aim is to protect all adults and children at risk from harm regardless of gender, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, age, socio-economic background, disability, religious or political beliefs, trade union membership, family circumstances, sexual orientation or other irrelevant distinction.
The guidance applies to all University employees, students, apprentices, freelance practitioners, student ambassadors, alumni, volunteers and anyone else representing the University of Nottingham.
2.2 Report and Support
The link to the Report and Support details is provided in the ‘Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures’ section below.
The University of Nottingham is committed to ensuring we do everything we can to provide a safe and supportive environment for everyone. Our campuses are a pleasant and inclusive place to study and work but, as with any community, issues can arise.
If you or someone you know has experienced or witnessed an incident, you can tell us anonymously or ask to speak an advisor. Speaking to advisor does not mean that you are making a formal report to the university, it is to enable you to access the support you need to make an informed decision.
3.0 Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures
The University of Nottingham Safeguarding policy and Report and Support details can be found here:
Safeguarding Policy
Report and Support
4.0 Version Control Table
Version Control Table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework based on content last modified on 17/07/2023
QSC
February 2025
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
24 February 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/academic-regulations/ug-study-regs.aspx
Header: Undergraduate study regulations
Intro: This section contains the University's undergraduate study regulations. These pages are only applicable to undergraduate students but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Undergraduate study regulations - The University of NottinghamUndergraduate study regulations
This section contains the University's undergraduate study regulations. These pages are only applicable to undergraduate students but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Pages within this section
Regulations from September 2020
Regulations from September 2019 to September 2020
Regulations from September 2017 to September 2019
Regulations from September 2015 to September 2017
Regulations from September 2005 to September 2015
Regulations for students who do not meet Honours requirements from September 2015
Regulations for students who did not meet Honours requirements before September 2015
Regulations for first degrees before September 2005
Please be aware that during academic year 2019/20, the University introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. A number of pages within this category were previously affected by these arrangements;
the exceptional regulations can be viewed here
.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
22 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/academic-regulations/pgt-study-regs.aspx
Header: Postgraduate Taught study regulations
Intro: This section contains the University's study regulations for all taught master's degrees, postgraduate diploma and postgraduate certificate courses. These pages are only applicable to postgraduate students but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Postgraduate Taught study regulations - The University of NottinghamPostgraduate Taught study regulations
This section contains the University's study regulations for all taught master's degrees, postgraduate diploma and postgraduate certificate courses. These pages are only applicable to postgraduate students but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Pages within this section
Regulations for students admitted from September 2021
Regulations for students admitted from September 2020
Regulations for students admitted from September 2019 and before September 2020
Regulations for students admitted from September 2017 and before September 2019
Regulations for students admitted from September 2016 and before September 2017
Regulations for students admitted from September 2012 and before September 2016
Regulations for students admitted from September 2006 and before September 2012
Regulations before September 2006
Please be aware that during academic year 2019/20, the University introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. A number of pages within this category were previously affected by these arrangements;
the exceptional regulations can be viewed here
.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
22 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/academic-regulations/chi-mal-spec-regs.aspx
Header: China and Malaysia-specific regulations
Intro: This page contains specific study regulations which are relevant to the University's international campuses. This content is only applicable to staff and students at the China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
China and Malaysia-specific regulations - The University of NottinghamChina and Malaysia-specific regulations
This page contains specific study regulations which are relevant to the University's international campuses. This content is only applicable to staff and students at the China and Malaysia campuses.University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC)
The following regulations are specific to the University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC):
It is a condition of continued registration at the UNNC that students who are Chinese nationals undertake such non-credit bearing activities during the Foundation Stage of their degree courses as is notified to them at the beginning of those courses.
Due to local context, Master of Philosophy (MPhil) is not applicable to China campus (UNNC) for applying as a degree nor as a result of PhD examination.
University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM)
The following regulations are specific to the University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM):
It is a condition of continued registration at the UNM that students undertake such non-credit bearing activities during their degree courses as is notified to them at the beginning of their registration.
Owing to the requirements of the Malaysian Qualifications Agency (MQA) fallback awards are limited to those relating to named programmes with individual MQA approved statuses at UNM.
The academic regulations for the UNM Foundation Programme are contained in the following document:
Foundation Regulations - UNM
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
08 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/academic-regulations/qual-types-structures.aspx
Header: Qualification types and structures
Intro: This section contains important frameworks, statements and relationships in use at the University. These pages may be of interest to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Qualification types and structures - The University of NottinghamQualification types and structures
This section contains important frameworks, statements and relationships in use at the University. These pages may be of interest to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Pages within this section
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
The Quality Assurance Agency Qualification Framework
Relationship of the UNQF to the QAA qualification descriptors
Framework for Professional Doctorates
Statement of compatibility with the European Higher Education Area
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
08 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/academic-regulations/teaching-and-learning.aspx
Header: Teaching and learning
Intro: This section contains the University's policies on occasional teachers and students who teach, as well as guidance for teaching and learning arrangements and data collection. These pages are applicable across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses (except where indicated otherwise).
Content:
Teaching and learning - The University of NottinghamTeaching and learning
This section contains the University's policies on occasional teachers and students who teach, as well as guidance for teaching and learning arrangements and data collection. These pages are applicable across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses (except where indicated otherwise).Pages within this section
Minimum expectations for levels of teaching and learning activity
Policy on occasional teachers
Policy on students who teach
Regulation for the collection and use of SEM surveys
Regulation for the collection and use of SET surveys
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
04 March 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/personal-tutoring-student-support-and-development/scope-support-development-tutoring.aspx
Header: The scope of student support, development and personal tutoring
Intro: This page provides an introduction to the scope of student support, development and personal tutoring for all undergraduate and postgraduate students. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
The scope of student support, development and personal tutoring - The University of NottinghamThe scope of student support, development and personal tutoring
This page provides an introduction to the scope of student support, development and personal tutoring for all undergraduate and postgraduate students. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1.0 Purpose
The aim of the student support, development and personal tutoring programme at Nottingham is to provide appropriate personalised developmental support and encouragement for the student to reach their academic potential, maximum personal and professional development and employability skills acquisition throughout their time at Nottingham.
2.0 Key Principles
All members of University staff have an important role to play in maximising the experience of every student.
The remaining pages within this category of the Quality Manual outline the particular responsibilities in this area placed on schools, personal tutors, Senior Tutors and central support services. However, it is important to appreciate that effective levels of student support and development require high levels of integration and information exchange across the wide variety of support and development services of the University.
It is important that all parties recognise that student development is about more than helping those students with particular academic or personal difficulties. Whilst such students clearly need our assistance, the best support and development provision will engage with every student to help them to maximise their potential whilst studying at the University of Nottingham.
3.0 Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures
Induction and tutoring statements
Personal tutoring
Role and responsibilities of Senior Tutors
Disabled students
High Performance Athlete academic flexibility
4.0 Version Control Table
Version Control Table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework based on content last modified on 12/04/2022
QSC
February 2025
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
24 February 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/personal-tutoring-student-support-and-development/induction-and-tutoring-statements.aspx
Header: Induction and tutoring statements
Intro: This page provides guidance on the format of student inductions and the content of all School tutoring statements. Its content is primarily directed at Schools but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Induction and tutoring statements - The University of NottinghamInduction and tutoring statements
This page provides guidance on the format of student inductions and the content of all School tutoring statements. Its content is primarily directed at Schools but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1.0 Purpose
This page provides guidance on induction that must be provided for students and information about tutoring or academic guide support.
2.0 Purpose
2.1 Induction
Schools must ensure that all of their students obtain a clear and timely communication of their induction arrangements. Introductory meetings for all new full-time students must be arranged by schools within their first two working days at the University, and for part-time students as soon as is reasonably practical.
Within the induction process, Schools must ensure that all of their students are provided with:
An opportunity to declare any disability
Required health and safety information
Guidance on their course and module choices
Guidance on progression and degree award regulations, academic offence matters, and appeals and complaints procedures
A student handbook and other materials as may be appropriate incorporating the above information
All undergraduate and taught postgraduate students must be provided with information on personal tutoring or academic guides (as appropriate) in their school/unit, including information on the role of their personal tutor/academic guide, how they can benefit from participation in the programme, the scheduling of meetings, and who to contact if their personal tutor/academic guide is not available.
All undergraduate and taught postgraduate students must be provided with information on who their personal tutor/academic guide is and how to contact them
Schools are also reminded that induction is not solely a Welcome Week activity.
2.2 Outcomes of Tutoring/academic guide systems
Each School is required to produce a written statement of its arrangements for achieving outcomes of tutoring/academic guide systems (whether by tutor system or academic guide system) for all of its undergraduate and taught postgraduate students.
This written statement may be an account of how each of the individual outcomes is achieved or may comprise a general description of how tutoring/academic guides works within a School (perhaps taken directly from the student handbook) with a commentary or mapping exercise on how these arrangements secure the outcomes of tutoring/academic guides.
A prime purpose of these statements is to identify practices in Schools that have a positive impact on students’ academic experience and that lend themselves to wider adoption.
These statements must be made available to all students, either through inclusion in student handbooks or by other suitable means, such as the online Student Staff Forum (SSFs).
These outcomes apply whether the student falls into the personal tutoring or academic guide system; they are:
Students feel acknowledged, recognised and accepted within their School or department as an individual with distinct academic needs and preferences
Students feel part of the School or department community, experiencing frequent contact with academic staff on an individual or small group basis and building relations with particular members of staff over an extended period
The personal development of the student is be promoted; leading to improved communication skills and greater confidence in presentation and dealing with the unfamiliar
Students receive prompt, helpful and detailed feedback on their assessments, in a manner that enhances learning and improves future assessment performance
Students struggling with aspects of individual modules, or more generally with their programme of studies, have clearly signposted and ready access to a reasonable level of academic advice and support designed to remedy their difficulties
Students receive the level of support in developing their study skills necessary to perform satisfactorily on their programme of studies
Students with personal circumstances adversely affecting their studies feel able to make these known to the School or department without difficulty and to be directed to the appropriate support service
Students receive the necessary careers information, advice and guidance to equip them to make informed choices about their future, to understand the options open to them, and to take advantage of available opportunities
Students are be made aware of the importance of developing and articulating their employability skills, including possible participation in the Nottingham Advantage Award (NAA)
Students receive appropriate advice and support when considering changing their programme of study or contemplating leaving the University
Students are prepared for periods of study away from their home campus and appropriately supported during those periods
The procedures for submitting extenuating circumstances regarding assessments are straightforward and well publicised
Disabled students and those with specific learning difficulties or a long term medical condition are clear about the support they will receive and where it is available, and the support is in line with University policies and regulations.
The procedures for submitting academic appeals and complaints are well publicised and staff are aware of their responsibilities within these procedures
Students being subjected to the academic offences procedure receive clear information and advice
Students receive relevant health and safety guidance, especially in laboratory or workshop-based subjects
Students are directed in a timely and appropriate manner to University support services for assistance with all of the above matters as necessary
3.0 Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures
For more information about SSFs, please consult the following:
Student Staff Fora
Additional links:
Careers and Employability Service
Services for Students
Nottingham Advantage Award
Disability Support Services
4.0 Version Control Table
Version Control Table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework based on content last modified on 29/04/2024
QSC
February 2025
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
24 February 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/personal-tutoring-student-support-and-development/personal-tutoring.aspx
Header: Personal tutoring
Intro: This page provides guidance on the role and responsibilities of the Personal Tutor system. Its contents are primarily directed at students and tutors/academic guides but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Personal tutoring - The University of NottinghamPersonal tutoring
This page provides guidance on the role and responsibilities of the Personal Tutor system. Its contents are primarily directed at students and tutors/academic guides but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1.0 Purpose
This page provides guidance on the role and responsibilities of the Personal Tutor system, including about effective delivery and roles and responsibilities of tutors and students. It also contains links to the alternative Academic Guide system.
2.0 Key Principles
2.1 Academic Guides system
Since the academic year 2023/24, some students are allocated to small interdisciplinary tutoring teams consisting of both staff and student representatives, instead of individual personal tutors.
In 2024/25 these students are first and second year undergraduate students in the Schools of Psychology (UK & UNM) and Law (UK), as well as postgraduate taught students in the Schools of Psychology (UK) and Computer Science (UK), first-year undergraduate students in the Nottingham University Business School (UK) and qualifying-year undergraduate students in the School of Education and English (UNNC).
Where 'personal tutor' is referred to within the Quality Manual, for the students detailed above, this includes the academic guides (also known as the 'here for you guides').
The link to full details about the Academic Guide system can be found in the 'Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures' section below.
2.2 Personal tutoring expectations
2.2.1 Undergraduate (UG) students
Every undergraduate student must be allocated a personal tutor by their School or unit at the start of their course. For Joint Honours students the personal tutor must be appointed by the lead School or unit. However, these students must also have a Joint Honours advisor in the other School who meets with the student at least twice per year (individually or in a group), particularly to assist with subject specific module choice and feedback.
Personal tutors must be academic/clinical academic members of staff (or, with the approval of the University Senior Tutor, members of the Administrative, Professional and Management (APM) job family at Level 4 or above). Note that in the UK, clinical lecturers, practitioner health lecturers, NHS mentors and social work practice learning tutors or equivalent can be personal tutors.
Schools must ensure that appropriate allowance is made in the Work Load Plan (WLP) for the staff-time necessary for effective personal tutoring and the administration involved in being an effective personal tutor.
Schools must ensure that students are informed of where they can seek assistance if their personal tutor is unavailable. In most cases, this would be the Senior Tutor.
2.2.2 Postgraduate taught (PGT) students
Every taught postgraduate student (whether full or part time, on a professional course, or on a distance learning course) must be allocated a personal tutor and informed of this at the start of their course. In particular, Schools must ensure that PGT personal tutoring programmes provide:
Review of feedback from early progress checks and advice and guidance on how to support the tutee’s development
Opportunity to participate in the personal and professional developmental opportunities available at Nottingham
2.2.3 Postgraduate research (PGR) students
PGR students must receive personal and academic support from their supervisor and from their School Postgraduate Student Adviser.
2.3 Personal Tutor meetings
There will be a clear stage appropriate developmental agenda for every personal tutor meeting, with appropriate time for reflection and action planning/goal setting around the following areas, in addition to discipline specific activity:
Wellbeing
Health
Interests and hobbies
Academic development and progress
Planning and organisation
Finance
Careers/employability
Skills acquisition
These personal tutor meetings must include goal setting and action planning.
Personal, professional and employability developmental goals may relate to any area of potential achievement other than those for which students are explicitly provided with an assessment grade or academic award.
By setting, achieving and reflecting on their academic performance and their personal, professional and employability developmental goals with their personal tutor, students may be assisted in maximising their experience in their time at the University of Nottingham, and may improve both their employability prospects and their general wellbeing.
It is suggested that the best goals will be simple, tangible, memorable and achievable.
Examples of some goals include:
Participation in the Nottingham Advantage Award (NAA)
Investigating work placement or final employment options and identifying possible companies to apply to
Undertaking a volunteering activity
Helping to run a student society
Becoming a member of a hall of residence committee or team
Learning about another society or culture
Improving writing or research skills
Increasing levels of tutorial academic contribution
Identifying and applying for study abroad or campus mobility options
Developing ideas for a dissertation topic
In addition, personal wellbeing goals may include:
Seeking help – for example, attending a counselling service workshop, meeting with the welfare team, or seeing a General Practitioner (GP)
Exploring online support apps such as Headspace and other wellbeing resources
Doing some exercise and re-engaging with an activity previously enjoyed
Increasing social activity and keeping up with family and friends
2.4 Role and responsibilities of personal tutors
As part of their School’s student support, development and personal tutoring programme, all personal tutors in the University of Nottingham are expected to support, encourage and guide those registered students who are their tutees so that they are supported in maximising their academic potential, personal development, and professional and employability skills acquisition throughout their time as a registered student at the University.
Personal tutors can enable their tutees to achieve this by helping them to review their progress regularly by encouraging self-appraisal and self-development strategies, by helping them to identify learning needs or goals and monitor their progress towards achieving their goals, as well as by exploring developmental opportunities available both within and outside the University. The personal tutor will also act as a gateway to the wider support and development provision at the University.
Personal tutors are not expected to be able to advise on all matters of personal and professional development and support. They are, however, expected to have sufficient knowledge of their School and the wider University so that they can help students to find the assistance they require. Such information will be made available to them, either by way of training or through their Senior Tutor.
Upon appointment as a personal tutor, they are expected to undertake appropriate induction and training and thereafter attend refresher training on a biennial basis (either by way of Professional Development events or something which has been organised by the School or department Senior Tutor).
Where personal tutor meetings are not timetabled, personal tutors are expected to be available to meet/make contact for a developmental and personal tutoring meeting with their tutees at least three times per academic year (once per term). In addition to this, for first year undergraduate students, an additional introductory meeting/contact must be arranged, ordinarily within the first two weeks of the first term. For postgraduate taught (PGT) students, or students on placement or exchange, this contact need not be face-to-face and can be completed by way of email, MS-Teams, telephone or other.
In addition to these scheduled meetings or contact, personal tutors must ensure that their tutees are able to contact them for additional guidance and support.
Personal tutors must inform the Senior Tutor if their students are not participating in the personal tutoring programme and are not meeting or contacting them
Personal tutoring meetings or contact will provide an opportunity for the personal tutor to encourage their student’s developmental action planning/goal setting and reflection on performance, skills acquisition and employability
Personal tutors are expected to challenge their students to make the most of their experience at the University of Nottingham. In part, if appropriate, they will do this by pointing out the wide range of opportunities made available by the University (for example, through the Nottingham Advantage Award (NAA), and the Careers and Employability Service)
All personal tutors are expected to be familiar with the University’s guidance for personal tutors, as well as their own School or department's supplementary guidance, and to keep informed of any updates to this material
Personal tutors are expected to provide their tutees with references for employment and further studies
Personal tutors must record and share relevant notes and information with their tutees, in due course this will be via the advisory note facility on Campus Solutions student record system
2.5 Student engagement with personal tutoring
All students need to appreciate that a successful undergraduate or postgraduate career will involve more than passing assessments to achieve a University award. The University (both centrally and at a School level) provides a wide range of support and development services to assist students in difficulty, as well as to improve the wellbeing, personal and academic development, understanding of University practices, employability and sense of community of every student. However, it is the responsibility of every student to gain an adequate knowledge of what services are available to and appropriate for them, and to make use of these services as their individual needs and circumstances require.
In particular, students must make all reasonable efforts to prepare for and attend all scheduled meetings with their personal tutor, and to keep their personal tutor informed of their personal development progress.
Students are reminded that they are likely to require references for employment or further study from their personal tutor, and that it is unreasonable to expect their personal tutor to be able to supply an adequate reference if they have not engaged in a reasonable level of interaction with them.
Students must keep their School informed of circumstances that may impact on their progress and which may require personal support at either a School or University level.
2.6 School's responsibility regarding Senior Tutors
Each School should appoint an appropriately experienced academic member of staff to act as a Senior Tutor and should keep the University Senior Tutor and the Deputy University Senior Tutor informed of the role holder. If they wish, Schools may decide to appoint multiple Senior Tutors with responsibility for different groups of students (for example, undergraduates or postgraduates) or different units or divisions within their School if they feel that this will improve their overall delivery of student support and development.
Appropriate Work Load Planning (WLP) time should be allocated to effectively perform this role.
2.7 Evaluation of personal tutoring
Each school must take steps to monitor the effectiveness of its arrangements for the provision of student support and development. The Senior Tutor(s) will take a lead role in undertaking this monitoring.
It is the responsibility of the University Senior Tutor to monitor the operation of student support and development across the University and to bring issues of concern to relevant University committees.
Additionally, one aspect of the University's Periodic Assurance and Continuous Enhancement Review (PACER) is to determine whether adequate overall provision is made for student support and development support. Central support services providing student support and development are also subject to periodic reviews by the University.
3.0 Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures
For more information about the Academic Guide system, please consult the following:
Academic Guides
For more information about the role and responsibilities of the School Postgraduate Student Advisor, please consult the following:
Responsibilities of the Postgraduate Student Advisor
Responsibilities of the School
For more information about the role and responsibilities of Senior Tutors, please consult the following:
Role and responsibilities of Senior Tutors
For more information about the monitoring and review processes, please consult the following:
Programme monitoring and review
4.0 Version Control Table
Version Control Table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework based on content last modified on 11/10/2024
QSC
February 2025
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
24 February 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/registration-and-attendance/taught-mod-enrolment-and-additional-credits.aspx
Header: Taught module enrolment and registering for additional credits
Intro: This page provides information on student enrolment and registration for all modules, including additional credits. Its content is primarily directed at undergraduate and postgraduate taught students but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Taught module enrolment and registering for additional credits - The University of NottinghamTaught module enrolment and registering for additional credits
This page provides information on student enrolment and registration for all modules, including additional credits. Its content is primarily directed at undergraduate and postgraduate taught students but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Please note that students in the UK on a Student Route visa are also affected by the University's Policy on Immigration Sponsorship. Where academic policies and immigration policies seem to be contradictory, immigration policies will take precedence. For more information, please consult the following:
Immigration sponsorship
Overview
Includes:
student responsibility; University's right to not award marks; access to information
In order to qualify for an award, students must pursue an approved course of study. It is the student’s responsibility to see that the selected combination of modules accords with the regulations for their course.
The University retains the right not to award marks for coursework or to allow students to sit examinations for modules for which they are not formally registered.
The 'Courses' tab on the MyNottingham Portal, available to all students, reflects the information held on the University’s central student records system; MyNottingham also provides guidance on how to rectify incorrect data. In order for a student formally to be entered for an examination, MyNottingham must accurately reflect the student's module enrolments.
It is the responsibility of students to ensure that MyNottingham contains the correct information prior to the publication of the definitive examination timetable.
Formal approval
Includes:
compulsory modules; other choices; review; issues regarding submission
Students will be enrolled automatically onto any compulsory modules which form part of their programme of study.
Students must select all other choices through the online module enrolment system when instructed to do so, ensuring they are selecting modules that meet the requirements of their programme of study. The online system will apply checks as the choices are made and the submission cannot be made if certain requirements are not met.
After submission, a further review of choices is made by staff.
Should a student be contacted regarding issues with their submission, these must be rectified by students immediately.
Change of mind period
Includes:
autumn semester; spring semester; restrictions
To provide students with an opportunity to change the modules they are studying, the University allows for the following two-week ‘change of mind’ periods.
Autumn Semester – there will be two weeks allocated around the start of session to change previously selected modules. Students are able to change any (autumn, spring or full-year) optional modules.
Spring Semester – there will be two weeks allocated around the start of the spring semester. At this point, students can only change spring semester optional modules.
During these periods, students are able to change their module choices through the online module enrolment system, which will be reopened during these periods.
Students are not permitted to register for additional modules in order to compensate for a perceived poor performance in previous modules.
Exceptional amendments
Includes:
Exceptional Amendment Form; responsibilities; subsequent requests to change; extenuating circumstances procedure
After these ‘change of mind’ periods, a change to a module registration will only be accepted in exceptional circumstances and where the choice is formally approved – that is, approval from the school offering the module and from the student’s home school.
To do so, the student must complete the following form:
Exceptional Amendment Form
It is the student’s responsibility to ensure that any requests to exceptionally change a module are notified to their school or department immediately. This notification is via the completion of the form above. Only one module change request per form is permitted.
The University reserves the right to give marks only for modules that the student is formally enrolled on. In cases where the student has failed to notify the change via the form a mark of zero may be awarded for the module a student is enrolled on, even though they have studied and successfully completed another module, on which they are not registered.
Subsequent requests to change
Requests to change a module registration once the majority of the teaching for the module has been delivered (in the case of year-long modules this will apply when the majority of teaching in the initial semester has been delivered) must be approved by Quality and Standards Committee (QSC).
Such changes would only be possible when there are extenuating circumstances. In such cases, please note the following:
The home school will make the case on behalf of the student directly to QSC
If the change is agreed the Registry and Academic Affairs Programmes team will be notified and will update the student record.
For more information about what kind of circumstances are permissible, please consult the following Student Services page:
Extenuating circumstances
Registering for additional credits
Includes:
normal expectations; exceptional procedure; confirmation; important information for students; student fees and finance
The normal expectation is that registered students of the University enrol for modules in accordance with the appropriate University regulations and programme specification. Exceptionally, however, a student may be allowed to register for a maximum of 20 credits of additional credit-bearing modules in any one academic year (see 9e below).
When a student wishes to undertake a module(s) that cannot be accommodated on the course on which they are registered, the following procedure will apply:
1.
The student should initially approach their school to confirm that the module(s) they wish to undertake cannot be accommodated on their degree course. For students registered on a joint honours degree, the school with overall administrative responsibility (the ‘lead’ school) for the course should be approached.
2.
If the module(s) cannot be accommodated within the structure of the degree course, the student will be allowed to take them in addition to their degree course credits.
3.
The student’s school should confirm the details of the additional module(s) that the student wishes to study to the home Student Services programmes team.
4.
If the module specification specifies a maximum number of available places, the school offering the module should always give priority to students who need or wish to take that module(s) as part of their degree course. It is for this reason that a student wishing to undertake an additional module(s) may have to wait until the normal module enrolment process has been completed before knowing for definite that they may enrol for such additional study.
5.
Upon receipt of the request from the school, Student Services staff will add these additional modules to the student’s record and arrange for a pro rata tuition fee to be charged to the student.
6.
Once the student has completed the assessment for the additional module(s) as outlined in the module specification (i.e. submitted the coursework and/or sat the examination), the school offering the module(s) should inform the Student Service Centre so that the module(s) may be deleted from the student’s record to allow marks processing to operate as normal.
7.
If the student does not pass the module upon their first attempt, the offering school reserves the right to refuse a reassessment opportunity. If a reassessment opportunity is granted, the student will be charged the appropriate reassessment fee.
8.
If the student requires written confirmation of any details relating to the additional module(s), this should be provided by the school offering the module(s).
9.
Students should note that:
(a)
undertaking additional credits is done entirely at their own risk;
(b)
any effect of the workload associated with the additional module(s) will not be accepted as an extenuating circumstance in relation to performance on their degree course;
(c)
any credits awarded for the additional module(s) will not appear on the final transcript. Confirmation of any details associated with the additional module(s) is carried out exclusively by the school(s) offering the module(s) (8 above);
(d)
any credits awarded for the additional module(s) will not be counted when determining either progression entitlement or an award of the University (including interim awards), irrespective of the student’s performance in such a module(s);
(e)
the maximum number of additional modules is limited to 20 credits per academic year and no more than 15 credits in any one semester.
Further information
More information on reassessment fees can be found here:
Student fees and finance - tuition fees
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
29 January 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/academic-regulations/unqf.aspx
Header: University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
Intro: This page sets out the University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (UNQF) and explains how it is used to set and maintain the University's academic standards. This information is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework - The University of NottinghamUniversity of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
This page sets out the University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (UNQF) and explains how it is used to set and maintain the University's academic standards. This information is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Introduction
Includes:
influences; key links; purpose
The University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (UNQF) has been drafted to be fully compatible with the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA)'s Framework for Higher Education Qualifications in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, as well as the qualifications framework adopted at the Bergen Summit of the Bologna Process for the creation of a European Higher Education Area.
For more information, please consult the following:
The QAA Quality Code
European Higher Education Area
How does the Bologna process work?
Programme specifications based on the QAA Framework have been formulated for University of Nottingham courses. Building on this work, a University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (the UNQF) has been devised to underpin future course approval and review activity.
The purposes of the UNQF are to:
Help applicants, students, employers, and other stakeholders to understand the University’s awards and to place them in context with each other and with the awards of other institutions.
Demonstrate that appropriate progression occurs between levels before arriving at a final award.
Ensure an accurate mapping of learning outcomes and assessment to clearly defined levels as proposed in the QAA Code of Practice.
Assist staff formulating new courses in deciding upon the appropriate structure, title, and final award of those courses.
Facilitate the integration of Nottingham credits, modules, courses and awards into future European-wide initiatives.
Avoid difficulties for students in undertaking credit transfer.
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (UNQF)
Includes:
relationship to the QAA qualification descriptors; table of credits in total and by stage; table of minimum requirements for award; table of periods of registered study for research awards
1.
A University of Nottingham credit equates to 10 hours of notional study. Credits are awarded by the University at the levels described on the Relationship of the University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (UNQF) to the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) qualification descriptors page, which themselves relate to the QAA qualification descriptors on the QAA Qualification Framework page.
The notional equivalent hours of study may not be directly applicable to University of Nottingham apprenticeship programmes where work-based learners have additional contextual opportunities to embed and test learning. Programme approval processes will ensure teaching approaches meet required outcomes for the learners on apprenticeships.
For more information, please consult the following:
Relationship of the UNQF to the QAA qualification descriptors
The Quality Assurance Agency Qualification Framework
2.
The number and level of credits which need to be gained for each taught award of the University is as follows:
Credits in Total and by Stage
Table of Credits in Total and by Stage
Qualification
Credits
Stage
Period of Registered Study (full-time).    Approval may be given for these lengths to be varied for individual programmes
Foundation Certificate (FCert)
120 credits at level 0 or above
2 semesters
Undergraduate Certificate (UGCert)
120 credits at level 1 or above
2 semesters
Undergraduate Diploma (UGDip)
240 credits with at least 90 credits at level 2 or above
Qualifying Stage: 120 credits at level 1 or above
Part I: 120 credits with at least 90 credits at level 2 or above
1 year 9 months
Ordinary Degree
300 credits with at least 60 credits at level 3
Part I: 100 credits with at least 80 credits at level 2 or above
Part II: 100 credits with at least 60 credits at level 3
2 years 9 months
Graduate Certificate (GCert)
60 credits with at least 40 credits at level 3 or above
1 semester
Graduate Diploma (GDip)
120 credits with at least 90 credits at level 3 or above
2 semesters
Honours Degree (Hons)*
*These requirements also apply to the award of an unclassified ('Pass') degree at the end of an honours course
360 credits** with at least 190 credits at level 2 or above and at least 100 credits at level 3 or above
** This will be 480 credits for the Bachelor of Education course run at the University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC) and for the Bachelor of Pharmacy course run at the University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM).
Qualifying Stage: 120 credits at level 1 or above
Part I: 120 credits with at least 90 credits at level 2 or above
Part II: 120 credits with at least 100 credits at level 3 or above
2 years 9 months
Integrated Masters
480 credits with at least 290 credits at level 2 or above, 200 credits at level 3 or above, and 120 credits at level 4
Qualifying Stage: 120 credits at level 1 or above
Part I: 120 credits with at least 90 credits at level 2 or above
Part II: 120 credits with at least 100 credits at level 3 or above
Part III: 120 credits with at least 90 credits at level 4 and a further 10 credits at level 3 or above
3 years 9 months
Postgraduate Certificate (PGCert)
60 credits with at least 50 credits at level 4
1 semester
Postgraduate Diploma (PGDip)
120 credits with at least 90 credits at level 4
2 semesters
Taught Masters Degree
180 credits with at least 150 credits at level 4
Taught Stage: 120 credits with at least 90 credits at level 4
Research stage: At least 60 credits of the course is devoted to a research project leading to a dissertation/comparable research output or the production of other output such as an artefact, business plan, performance or musical composition. These credits must be at level 4.
1 year
Two Year Taught Masters Degree
240 credits with at least 180 credits at level 4
Taught Stage: 120-180 credits with at least 120 at level 4
Research stage: At least 60 credits of the course is devoted to a research project leading to a dissertation/comparable research output or the production of other output such as an artefact, business plan, performance or musical composition. These credits must be at level 4.
2 years
Taught European Masters Degree (to be delivered in collaboration with other European Universities)
240 credits with at least 210 credits at level 4
Taught Stage: 120 credits with at least 90 credits at level 4 or 180 credits with at least 150 credits at level 4
Research stage: At least 60 credits of the course is devoted to a research project leading to a dissertation/comparable research output or the production of other output such as an artefact, business plan, performance or musical composition. These credits must be at level 4.
2 years
In circumstances where a PSRB requires deviation from the UNQF, approval is required from QSC, but it is expected that approval will be granted.
Please note the following:
From the 2015/16 academic year, the Ordinary degree will be available only as outlined in the regulations relating to the Application of regulations for students who fail to meet Honours requirements.
Course structures must require students to gain the above number of credits at each level in order to obtain the appropriate qualification.
Level 0 credits may only count towards the award of a Foundation Certificate or be used to constitute a 120 credit Foundation Stage undertaken by students prior to the stages listed in 4 and 5 below.
3.
Programme specifications may also set out additional non credit-bearing components of a course which must be undertaken for an award to be made. Where a standard of performance must be attained in the additional component for an award to be made, this standard will be described in the programme specification.
4.
The Foundation Certificate, Undergraduate Certificate, Graduate Certificate, Postgraduate Certificate, and Postgraduate Diploma will all consist of a single stage.
5.
Course structures must require students to gain the above number of credits at each level at each stage in order to obtain the appropriate qualification.
6.
Programme specifications will specify whether:
(a)
An Honours degree or an Ordinary Degree is awarded as a:
Bachelor of Architecture (BArch)
Bachelor of Arts (BA)
Bachelor of Arts and Science (BASc)
Bachelor of Education (BEd)
Bachelor of Engineering (BEng)
Bachelor of Laws (LLB)
Bachelor of Medical Sciences (BMedSci)
Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (BMBS)
Bachelor of Midwifery (BMid)
Bachelor of Science (BSc)
Bachelor of Theology (BTh)
Bachelor of Veterinary Medical Sciences (BVMedSci)
Bachelor of Veterinary Medicine and Bachelor of Veterinary Surgery (BVM BVS)
(b)
An Integrated Masters is awarded as a:
Master in Arts (MArts)
Master in Engineering (MEng)
Master in Mathematics (MMath)
Master of Nursing Science (MNursSci)
Master of Nutrition (MNutr)
Master of Pharmacy (MPharm)
Master in Science (MSci)
(c)
A Taught Masters is awarded as a:
Master of Architecture (MArch)
Master of Arts (MA)
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Master of Education (MEd)
Master of Laws (LLM)
Master of Medical Sciences (MMedSci)
Master of Musical Arts (AmusM)
Master of Public Administration (MPA)
Master of Public Health (MPH)
Master of Science (MSc)
Master of Social Work (MSW)
Masters in Teaching and Learning (MTL)
Master of Technology (MTech)
7.
Subject titles of awards indicate whether the course is:
Single subject (with title naming a subject or related subjects)
Joint (with title naming two distinct subjects as ‘x and y’)
Major/Minor (with title naming two distinct subjects as ‘x with y’ or similar)
Multidisciplinary (with title listing three distinct subjects)
The minimum requirements for title of awards are set out below. Course structures must require students to take at least the following number of credits in each subject:
Table of minimum requirements for title of awards
Award
Single
Joint
Major/Minor
Multidisciplinary
FCert, UGCert, GDip, PGDip
100 credits in subject
50 credits in each subject
60 credits in major subject, 40 credits in minor subject
40 credits for each subject listed
UGDip
180 credits in subject
100 credits in each subject
120 credits in major subject, 60 in minor subject
60 credits for each subject listed
Ordinary Degree
220 credits in subject
120 credits in each subject
160 credits in major subject, 80 in minor subject
80 credits for each subject listed
Honours Degree
280 credits in subject
140 credits in each subject
220 credits in major subject, 90 in minor subject
90 credits for each subject listed
Integrated Masters
360 credits in subject
180 credits in each subject
280 credits in major subject, 100 in minor
100 credits for each subject listed
GCert, PGCert
50 credits in subject
30 credits in each subject
30 credits in major subject, 20 in minor
20 credits for each subject listed
Masters
140 credits in subject
70 credits in each subject
90 credits in major subject, 60 in minor
60 credits for each subject listed
Awards which do not meet any of the above minimum requirements will have the title ‘X with Combined Studies’, ‘X and Combined Studies’, or just ‘Combined Studies’, as appropriate. Where a module involves more than one subject, all the credits from that module may count towards satisfying the minimum requirements for each subject. A module comprising material which, while not directly related to the subject, provides knowledge or skills necessary for its study, may also count towards satisfying the minimum requirements for that subject.
8.
For research degrees, Masters and Doctoral awards relate to the descriptors for qualifications at Masters and Doctoral level in The Qualification Assurance Agency Qualification Framework. For more information about this Framework, please consult the following:
The Quality Assurance Agency Qualification Framework
The periods of registered study for each research award of the University is as follows:
Table of periods of registered study for research awards
Table of periods of registered study for research awards
Award
Full-time
Part-time
Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) / Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research)
Minimum: 1 year (180) credits) 2 years (240 credits)
Normal: 1 year (180) credits) 2 years (240 credits)
Maximum: 1 year (180 credits) 2 years (240 credits)
Minimum: 2 years (180 credits) 4 years (240 credits)
Normal: 2 years (180 credits) 4 years (240 credits)
Maximum: 2 years (180 credits) 4 years (240 credits)
Master of Philosophy (MPhil)
Minimum: 1 year
Normal: 2 years
Maximum: 3 years
Minimum: 2 year
Normal: 4 years
Maximum: 6 years
Master of Research (MRes)
Minimum: 1 year
Normal: 1 year
Maximum: 1 year
Minimum: 2 years
Normal: 2 years
Maximum: 4 years
Master of Veterinary Medicine (MVM) / Master of Veterinary Surgery (MVS)
Minimum: 2 years
Normal: 3 years
Maximum: 4 years
Minimum: 4 years
Normal: 6 years
Maximum: 6 years
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Doctor of Medicine (DM)
Minimum: 2 years
Normal: 3 years
Maximum: 4 years
Minimum: 4 years
Normal: 6 years
Maximum: 8 years
Professional Doctorates
Minimum: 2 years
Normal: 3 years
Maximum: 4 years
Minimum: 4 years
Normal: 6 years
Maximum: 8 years
Periods of part-time study are weighted 0.5 in comparison to full-time study in relation to these minima and maxima. Except for the circumstances given in 9 below, full-time research students are required to have a minimum of 12 supervisions per year and part-time students a minimum of 6 supervisions per year. These supervisions should take place at regular intervals throughout the year.
9.
Regulations for the awards in 8 above may specify certain taught modules, research training, or other additional components which must be undertaken, and any performance level in them which must be achieved, in order for the award to be made. The number of supervisions research students are required to attend may be reduced where additional components are being undertaken.
10.
Regulations will specify whether a Professional Doctorate is awarded as a:
Doctor of Agrifood (DAgriFood)
Doctor of Applied Psychology (DAppPsych)
Doctor of Applied Educational Psychology (DAppEdPsy)
Doctor of Applied Social Science (DASS)
Doctor of Architecture (DArch)
Doctor of Business Administration (DBA)
Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy)
Doctor of Education (EdD)
Doctor of Engineering (EngD)
Doctor of Forensic Psychology (DForenPsy)
Doctor of Health Science (DHSci)
Doctor of Medicine (DM)
Doctor of Musical Arts (AMusD)
Doctor of Nursing (NurseD)
Doctor of Public Policy (DPP)
Doctor of Public Management (DPM)
Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVetMed)
Doctor of Veterinary Surgery (DVetSurg)
Doctor of Workplace Health and Wellbeing (DocWHW)
For more information, please consult the following:
Framework for Professional Doctorates
11.
Awards listed in the UNQF may be awarded jointly with other institutions, subject to the approval of Senate.
12.
The language of teaching and assessment for all provision must be in English when students are registered for a University of Nottingham qualification. The only exception is where the subject of study is a language or literature other than English.
Additional links
Regulations for students who do not meet Honours requirements from September 2015
Regulations for students who did not meet Honours requirements before September 2015
European Credit Transfer System
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
24 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/studies-away-from-university/recog-other-learning.aspx
Header: Recognition of Other Learning
Intro: This page provides guidance on where other learning credit(s) can be awarded towards a University of Nottingham qualification. Its contents are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses and may also be of interest to prospective students.
Content:
Recognition of Other Learning - The University of NottinghamRecognition of Other Learning
This page provides guidance on where other learning credit(s) can be awarded towards a University of Nottingham qualification. Its contents are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses and may also be of interest to prospective students.Overview
Includes:
definition; School responsibilities
Recognition of other learning (ROL) covers all instances where credit towards a University qualification is awarded by the University by means other than enrolling on University modules or participating in formal placement or joint degree arrangements. Please be aware that:
Schools are responsible for making those who might be eligible for the recognition of prior learning aware of the opportunities available and supporting them through the process of application and assessment for recognition.
Schools must make their arrangements explicit for making decisions on ROL applications in line with the information within the remaining sections.
All decisions should be valid, reliable and consistent across students and programmes and be balanced against operating processes which are proportionate and flexible.
Scope of recognition
Includes:
Recognition of Prior Certified Learning (RPCL); Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL); Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL); terminology; Table of ROL contribution towards qualifications
Scope
Recognition of other learning (ROL) can cover the following aspects:
Recognition of prior certified learning (RPCL) – that is, recognition given in the form of credits to learning which is certified and at a higher education level but has not led to the award of higher education credits (such as professional development awards or employment-based awards).
Recognition of prior experiential (or informal) learning (RPEL) – that is, an assessment process on the part of academic staff within the University leads to the recognition of learning gained through vocational or other experience, usually through the award of credit.
Recognition of prior learning (RPL) – that is, where credits or qualifications have been awarded by a higher education degree-awarding body in accordance with the higher education qualifications framework.
Credit transfer can be either on the basis of an individual application or as part of a formal arrangement with an external institution.The admitting school determines the status of that award (including considerations of volume and level) as it relates to the programme the applicant wishes RPL to be applied to.
For more information, please consult the following page:
Partnerships and placements
Terminology
The term Recognition of Other Learning (ROL) is used where certified (RPCL), experiential (RPEL) and Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) are being referred to together.
The University places no requirement on schools to grant ROL or to consider ROL applications if a school or programme has a policy of not so doing.
The effects of previous research study on the minimum periods of registration for research degrees are contained in the regulations for those degrees. More information can be found here:
Regulations for PhD and MPhil
The expectation is that all elements of a ROL application will be submitted in English except for official certification and where the subject of study is a language or literature other than English.
The University’s policy on Partnerships and placements should be referred to for guidance about mark and credit transfer for students on study abroad placements at educational Institutions where this an integral part of their programme of study.
For more information, please consult the following:
Table of ROL contribution towards qualifications
University of Nottingham qualification towards which ROL is granted
Maximum RPL credits
Maximum RPCL/RPEL credits
Foundation Certificate
80
40
Undergraduate Certificate
80
40
Undergraduate Diploma
160
80
Ordinary Degree (Part I only)
*From 2015/16 this degree is only available as an exit award.
120
100
Honours Degree (Qualifying and Part I only)
240
120
Graduate Certificate
40
20
Graduate Diploma
80
40
Integrated Masters (Qualifying and Part I only)
240
160
Postgraduate Certificate
40
20
Postgraduate Diploma
80
40
Masters (Taught stage only)
80
60
Research Master (MRes, MSc (by Research), MA (by Research))
60
60
Professional doctorates (where the research element is weighted at two-thirds and the taught element weighted at one-third of the programme
120
120
For more information about changes to availability, please consult the Academic regulations category:
Academic regulations
Applications for ROL
Includes:
decisions; submission requirements; applications; potential fees
Where the learning has occurred prior to the student being admitted to the University, application for Recognition of Other Learning (ROL) should be made before the student first registers with the University as schools may choose not to consider any applications for ROL submitted after admission.
It is the student’s responsibility to apply for ROL and to provide all the necessary evidence to support their application.
Decisions
Decisions for all applications will be made by the admitting school, which can request any supporting evidence from the student which it deems necessary to reach a decision. The school may also wish to interview the applicant.
Submission requirements
As a minimum, applicants should include the following information within their submission for ROL (although schools may choose to waive some requirements where the ROL will only count towards the foundation or qualifying stage).
For all applications:
The number of credits for which ROL is being sought and the stage in the student’s programme at the University (e.g. Qualifying Stage, Part I) against which the credits will be counted.
Any specific modules or category of modules from which exemption is being sought as a result of the ROL.
Applications for ROL or Credit Transfer at Entry (CTAE):
The title, location, and nature of the institution at which the learning occurred.
The dates of attendance at the institution and of any qualifications obtained.
A statement of the equivalence of any qualifications obtained to levels and qualifications detailed on the University’s qualifications framework page.
Curriculum details of subjects studied at the institution.
An authorised transcript of marks and details of the marking scheme used by the institution.
For more information, please consult the following pages:
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
Applications for Recognition of Prior Experiential (or informal) Learning (RPEL):
An account of the activities undertaken which have resulted in learning, including the dates and duration of these activities.
A detailed statement of what has been learned from these activities.
Confirmation from an employer or other objective source of the activities and learning claimed by the student.
Potential fees
Schools may choose to charge a fee for considering a ROL application; such a fee, though, should be kept to a minimum and only be designed to cover the cost of assessing the application. Where fees are charged, these are likely to be higher for an RPEL than for Recognition of Prior Certified Learning (RPCL) or CTAE application.
Applicants should note that if RPEL is granted, and fewer credits are therefore studied, the resulting tuition fees will be as set out in the University’s fees regulations. Applicants should also note that the reduction in the number of credits being studied may prevent them from having the status of full-time students.
For more information, please consult the following:
University of Nottingham fees regulations
For more information, and to make an application, please consult the following:
Services for Students - Recognition of Other Learning
Approving ROL applications
Includes:
school responsibilities; additional criteria; application for ROL form.
Schools are responsible for approving Recognition of Other Learning (ROL) applications but should not approve them unless the following criteria are satisfied:
The factual statements contained in the application have been substantiated (either by the school or the Admissions Office) such that there is sufficient evidence of the learning claimed and that it is clearly the result of the applicant's own efforts and achievements.
The prior learning has taken place in the last ten years (many schools will, of course, require the learning to have occurred much more recently).
The student has gained pass marks in those modules or units for which Application of Prior Learning (APL) is being claimed.
There is a close match between the prior learning and the level and learning outcomes of those modules which will not be taken as a result of the ROL.
The limitations on granting ROL contained in the policy on Limitations on ROL and policy on Double Counting have not been breached.
The school may have additional criteria which must also be satisfied. All decisions to grant ROL must be reported to Registry and Academic Affairs by submitting the relevant form and recorded against the student’s academic record.
For more information, please consult the following:
Services for Students - Recognition of Other Learning
Information to individual ROL applicants
Includes:
UCAS; School responsibilities; decision
Students applying for direct entry to Part I via UCAS will receive a decision on their application (by way of UCAS) in the same manner as other applicants.
Students applying for Recognition of Other Learning (ROL) should be informed of this by the school and should also be told:
Whether a fee will be charged for considering an ROL application and the amount of that fee.
The information the student will be expected to provide and any deadlines for providing it.
The likely timescale for considering the application.
Whether they will receive feedback on their assessment on either a successful or rejected case.
Alternatively, the applicant should be told that the school or programme has a policy of not granting ROL, if that is the case.
Decision
Once a decision has been made by the school, the student should be told in writing by the school:
Whether or not ROL is being granted.
The number of credits being awarded, their level, and the stage of the student’s course against which the credits are being counted.
The marks which have been attributed to the credits being awarded. Or, in the case of a student receiving ROL for which no marks have been attributed, the arrangements for progression and classification.
Any specific modules or groups of modules from which the student is being exempted as a result of the ROL.
Any restrictions on the student’s module choice over and above normal University and supplementary regulations.
The written communication containing this information should be copied to Student Services Development (Academic Processes) or equivalent.
Further guidance for Schools
Includes:
group articulations on ROL; Memorandum of Agreement (MoA); monitoring and review;
Group articulations on ROL
Schools may establish agreements with other educational institutions to grant Recognition of Other Learning (ROL) to groups of applicants to their courses who have obtained a particular qualification or successfully undertaken specified periods of study. Please note the following:
In making such an agreement, Schools should, as a minimum, ask for the same information about the learning that students routinely gain from the institution or organisation as is indicated in the previous section.
In determining whether to enter into a group ROL agreement, Schools should apply the same criteria as specified in the previous section.
The Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) underpinning group ROL should be drafted with reference to the QAA Quality Code for Higher Education Chapter B10 Managing Higher Education Provision with Others and the University’s guidance on MoAs and be submitted to Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) for consideration prior to signature. Details of the students being admitted through such agreements should be reported to Student Services Development or equivalent.
For more information, please consult the following:
Partnerships and placements
Quality and Standards Committee
Monitoring and review
All group ROL agreements should be reviewed by the School as part of periodic Educational Enhancement Assurance Review (EEAR). Statistics relating to the progress and achievement of group ROL students compared to the rest of the cohort should be considered by the School as part of annual monitoring of programmes.
For more information about the EEAR process, please consult the following :
Educational Enhancement and Assurance Review
Limitations on ROL
Includes:
maximum amounts; table of maximum ROL contribution towards qualification; academic regulations
The maximum amount of Credit Transfer at Entry (CTAE) or Credit Transfer Post Entry (CTPE) which can be awarded towards University of Nottingham undergraduate qualifications is two-thirds of the total credits for the programme.
The maximum amount of Recognition of Prior Experiential (or informal) Learning (RPEL) which can be awarded towards University of Nottingham undergraduate qualifications is one-third of the total credits for the programme.
The maximum amount of RPEL which can be awarded towards University of Nottingham postgraduate qualifications is two-thirds of the credits for the taught stage of the programme,
except that:
RPEL cannot be granted towards Part II or equivalent or Part III of an undergraduate programme, nor towards the dissertation stage of a Masters programme.
If Recognition of Other Learning (ROL) based on a combination of certified, credited and experiential learning are granted to the same student, the overall number of credits awarded must not exceed the maxima for ROL.
The limitations applied to group articulations of CTPE will be set out in the relevant Memorandum of Agreement (MoA).
ROL granted for previous study at Nottingham is not subject to the limitations stated below. For more information, please consult the Double counting section located further down this page.
ROL should only be granted for whole modules or groups of modules.
The lower maxima for Recognition of Prior Certified Learning (RPCL) and RPEL credits is a result of the greater distance from this form of learning to that which generally occurs in University of Nottingham modules:
Table of maximum ROL contribution towards qualifications
University of Nottingham qualification towards which ROL is granted
Maximum CTAE/CTPE credits
Maximum RPCL/RPEL credits
Foundation Certificate
80
40
Undergraduate Certificate
80
40
Undergraduate Diploma
160
80
Ordinary Degree (Part I only)
*From 2015/16 this degree is only available as an exit award.
120
100
Honours Degree (Qualifying and Part I only)
240
120
Graduate Certificate
40
20
Graduate Diploma
80
40
Integrated Masters (Qualifying and Part I only)
240
160
Postgraduate Certificate
40
20
Postgraduate Diploma
80
40
Masters (taught stage only)
80
60
Research Master (MRes, MSc (by Research), MA (by Research))
60
60
Professional doctorates (where the research element is weighted at two-thirds and the taught element weighted at one-third of the programme
120
120
For more information about changes to availability, please consult the following:
Academic regulations
Double counting
Includes:
granting of ROL; restrictions; admissions procedures; relevant exceptions; academic procedures
Recognition of Other Learning (ROL) can be granted for all learning from other educational institutions, even if that learning has already resulted in the award of a qualification similar to, or the same as, the qualification to be awarded to the student by the University of Nottingham.
Similarly, the University places no restrictions on other institutions awarding qualifications on the basis of credits or qualifications gained at Nottingham.
ROL towards a University of Nottingham qualification may be granted for learning which has taken place in a previous period of study at the University, even if that learning has led to a Nottingham award. For example a student who has already left with a bachelor's degree may subsequently be allowed to return and take a further year for the award of an Integrated master's degree. No credits below honours level (university level 3) may be used as ROL for a postgraduate programme.
In accordance with the admissions procedures, individuals who have previously registered for and been unsuccessful on a course at the University of Nottingham may not apply to the same programme again and the ROL procedure does not apply to such potential candidates.
ROL from a University of Nottingham qualification may not be used to count towards a second Nottingham qualification which is both at the same level and in a similar subject to the first. For example, a student who has left with a BA Honours in Anthropology would not be able to count ROL from this programme towards a second BA Honours in Social Anthropology.
The exceptions to this are that a student who has successfully completed a Postgraduate Diploma programme (that is to say, was not awarded a Postgraduate Diploma as a result of failure on a Master's programme) may subsequently be allowed to return and to undertake a dissertation for the award of a Master's degree and that a student who has successfully completed an Integrated master's programme may use credits from that programme towards a postgraduate master's programme subject to approval from the admitting school and to the limitations on ROL above.
For more information on double counting, please consult the following:
Admissions procedures
Compensation and classification
Includes:
where marks are awarded; where marks are not awarded; partnerships and placements
Where marks are awarded
In the case of credits gained through Credit Transfer at Entry (CTAE) and Credit Transfer Post Entry (CTPE), marks should, if possible, be attributed to the credits using the same procedure as for marks transfer of exchange students. Marks may also be awarded for Recognition of Prior Certified Learning (RPCL) and Recognition of Prior Experiential (or informal) Learning (RPEL) through appropriate assessment of the student’s portfolio of evidence.
The compensation arrangements in the University’s study regulations will, however, only operate on the basis of modules studied at the University. In the case of undergraduate students, for example, a student must have passed 80 credits worth of modules taken at the University of Nottingham in order to be in a position to compensate any modules that have been failed at the University. Marks attributed to credits gained through Recognition of other learning (ROL) will, though, be used to calculate the student’s overall average for both compensation and classification purposes.
Where marks are not awarded
If the school does not believe it has sufficient information to attribute accurate marks to the credits gained through ROL, the following arrangements are to be followed in determining compensation (for progression purposes) and classification of awards for students:
In calculating the weighted average mark for purposes of compensation, only credits derived from modules on which the student has enrolled will be used. For example if a student has received 20 credits of ROL, then the student’s average mark will be obtained by dividing the weighted aggregate mark by just 100 rather than the normal 120. Credits gained through ROL will not count towards the minimum number of credits that must be passed in order for compensation to occur.
In calculating the overall weighted average for classification purposes, only credits derived from modules on which the student has enrolled will be used. For example if an honours student has received 20 credits of ROL at Part I, then the student’s Part I average will be obtained by dividing the weighted aggregate mark for Part I by just 100 rather than the normal 120.  If the student is enrolling on less than 100 credits in Part I of an undergraduate programme, the school may decide to set a non-standard Part I/II weighting for that student which allocates a lower than normal weighting to Part I.
For more information in regards to exchange students, please consult the following:
Partnerships and placements
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
27 January 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/prog-and-mod-design-and-approval/prog-spec-guidance.aspx
Header: Programme specification guidance
Intro: This page provides the regulations on programme specifications. Its content is primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Programme specification guidance - The University of NottinghamProgramme specification guidance
This page provides the regulations on programme specifications. Its content is primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1.0 Purpose
This page sets out the regulations about programme specifications to help staff who are both updating existing programme specifications as well as designing new ones.  These documents are published to both applicants and current students.
2.0 Key principles
A programme specification is required for all programmes on which a student may register (including ordinary degree programmes). There is no requirement for separate programme specifications for awards granted solely due to a student not satisfactorily completing the programme they are registered on.
For Postgraduate Certificates and Postgraduate Diplomas, a separate programme specification is only required if direct application is possible. Where the Certificate or Diploma is awarded to students who do not complete a master's programme, their qualifications fall under the programme specification of the corresponding master's degree.
For integrated master’s programmes, there is no requirement to produce a bachelor’s degree programme specification if students are effectively 'exiting' with the bachelor’s degree after three years. A programme specification would only be required if students can transfer to a bachelor's degree programme at an earlier point, and are registered for a period  before receiving their degree.
The University has endorsed seven principles for good curriculum design. Schools are asked to review the principles in the Curriculum design document as they design programmes.
New Programme Design Principles
Please note, University policies and procedures outlined in University Regulations and the Quality Manual apply automatically to all programmes. Therefore, please do not reproduce or summarise the content of University regulations or the Quality Manual in a programme specification.
2.1 Basic information
2.1.1 Title
Specify the qualification (e.g. BA, BSc, MA and others) and the subject title (e.g. Applied Linguistics) that will be reflected on students' degree certificates and transcripts. These will appear on students’ degree certificates and transcripts in this form.
In the case of bachelors' degrees, please specify whether the qualification is with honours or ordinary.
Please note no two programmes can share the same name.
For 2-year Masters, the title must include (2yr) appearing on the end of the title to make a clear distinction between other variations of Masters course. This will only appear on programmes of 240 credits. Where programmes are of this duration as a result of non-credit bearing placements this identifier will not appear.
Please consult the following for more information on each type of qualification:
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
2.1.2 Programme code
Please leave blank. A UCAS or Academic Plan code will be assigned by Registry and Academic Affairs (RAA) in UNUK, Academic Services Unit (ASU) in UNNC, and Student Registry Office (SRO) in UNM once a new programme has been approved.
2.1.3 Administrating School
Identify the School responsible for overall management, administration, and quality assurance of the programme.
If operational responsibilities for any of these matters are delegated to other Schools, please state these schools, specify their role and the percentage of their contribution. Please also specify the campus and location for the programme.
2.1.4 Partnership arrangement
Provide information on any placement arrangements including details of the partner and whether the programme is based on an existing one.
Please consult the following for further guidance on partnerships and placements:
Partnerships and placements
2.1.5 Type of programme
The types of programme are defined as:
Single subject (with subject specific title)
Joint (naming two distinct subjects as ‘x and y')
Major/Minor (naming two distinct subjects as ‘x with y' or similar)
Multidisciplinary (listing three distinct subjects)
Please consult section 7 of the following for detailed definitions:
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
2.1.6 Mode of study
Choose full time and/or part time.  For programmes offered in both full time and part time modes, a single programme specifications will be required.  The programme specification will encompass two separate descriptions of the programmes of study (part time and full time),  outlining the sequence in which modules are to be undertaken in each mode.
2.1.7 Mode of delivery
Specify the mode(s) of delivery and location(s) (including University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM) and University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC) where applicable) from the list below:
Full-time
Part-time
Distance learning
In-Person
Blended Learning
UK campus
UNM or UNNC or both
2.1.8 Duration
Please confirm the duration of the programme (if available both full-time and part-time please provide the duration for both modes of delivery.
Bachelors: 3 years
Integrated Masters: 4 years
Postgraduate Masters: 12 months full-time/24 months part-time
Postgraduate 2 year Masters: 21 months full-time/22 months part-time
2.1.9 Annual start date
Please indicate whether it follows a standard or non-standard start. If the programme begins on a date other than the start of the academic year, please provide the specific start date and all relevant start dates, where there is more than one date of commencement.
Standard Start: Starts at the beginning of the academic year
Non-Standard Start: Please state the start date(s) if the programme is to have start date which is anything other than the start of the academic year.  If there is more than one start date, please state all of them.
2.1.10 Higher Education Classification of Subjects (HECoS) codes
Provide the relevant HECoS code.
Please consult the following for more information about HECoS codes:
Higher Education Classification of Subjects (HECoS) codes
2.1.11 Accrediting body
Please state the following:
The name of any professional body which will, or is expected to, recognise or accredit the programme and the level along with type of that accreditation
The manner in which accreditation or recognition is necessary to practise a profession
The status of any application for accreditation or recognition and the timescale involved, including dates of professional body visits for accreditation or re-accreditation
2.1.12 Relevant QAA subject benchmark(s) and characteristic statements
Please state the Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education (QAA) subject benchmarks which are most relevant to the programme. As there are few benchmarks for postgraduate study, it may not be possible to identify a relevant benchmark for postgraduate programmes – though it could still be helpful to list a benchmark for a corresponding undergraduate programme which would normally provide entry to the postgraduate programme.
For more information about lists of benchmarks, please consult the following:
Benchmarks on the QAA website
In addition to the above, schools need to consider QAA characteristics statements published related to the proposed qualification to ensure that the distinctive features of the proposed qualification are articulated in module and programme specifications.
For information on Characteristics statements, please consult the following:
Characteristic statements on the QAA website
2.1.13 Fees
Please state the fee band for home and international students.
2.2 General information
If sections B, C, or D of the programme specification vary significantly based on the mode of delivery, consider submitting separate programme specifications for each version.
Provide any information of interest to applicants including a programme outline and duration as a minimum.
2.2.1 Educational aims
Specify educational aims particularly if not stated in the prospectus entry.
Information for students once they are at Nottingham – and not covered in Sections C, D, and E of the programme specification – must be included in the School’s own Student Handbook rather than being included in this section.
2.2.2 Outline Description of the Programme
Please provide any information you think would be of interest to applicants for this programme. As a minimum, this must be an outline of the programme.
2.2.3 How students will be taught
Please provide a programme level overview of how students will be taught, rather than specific details which may vary from year to year.  Prospective students will also see this information.
Additional information for students at Nottingham not covered in Sections C, D, and E of the programme specification must be included in the School’s Student Handbook rather than in this section.
2.3 Supplementary regulations
If sections B, C, or D of the programme specification vary significantly based on the mode of delivery, consider submitting separate programme specifications for each version.
2.3.1 Admission requirements
Please provide a summary of the minimum qualifications necessary to be considered for entry to the programme, including English language requirements, and any necessary skills or experience applicants must have. English Language requirements must be set at one of the five levels designated by the University, details of which are available from the Admissions Office.
If the programme is only available by internal transfer from another University of Nottingham programme and is therefore not open to external applicants, then this must also be indicated.
Include Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS), requirements, if applicable, and any other requirements.
For more information about the University's admission requirements, please consult the following:
Admissions
Admissions Office
2.3.2 Programme structure
Align the programme structure to the University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework.
Please consult the following for more information:
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
For each stage of the programme, please state:
The compulsory modules a student must take.
Where students are choosing modules from a list, how many modules they must choose and which modules are on the list. Each list must not contain active modules totalling over a maximum of 150 credits. Please note, programmes with extensive optionality may result in unavoidable clashes with less popular combinations of optional modules.
Whether students have any unrestricted choices of modules.
Whether students have any unrestricted choices of modules. If the programme includes modules from another School, consult with that school to ensure appropriateness, confirm requisites are amended to allow students to choose the modules and ensure sufficient capacity to accommodate additional students.
Modules must be assigned to one of three group types:
Compulsory Group: all students on the programme must select all modules in this group.
Restricted Group(s): students must select a minimum of XX credits and a maximum of XX credits from this group. Where multiple restricted groups are in use students choose from group one AND group two.
Alternative Group(s): students must select a minimum of XX credits and a maximum of XX credits from this group. Where multiple alternative groups are in use students choose from group one OR group two.
In all cases:
State the credit value, level of modules and semester in which they are being delivered.
All new programmes (and any programme changes) must be constituted by modules with  values of 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 or 60 credits; with the majority being 20 credits or more. For the MRes only, larger credit sizes of 80, 100, 120, 140 or 160 are permitted. 10 credit modules must be in the minority. No more than 50% of credits in a stage, which includes the taught stage of a taught master’s programme, can be comprised of 10 credits.
Please note, there must be a maximum of 70 credits for UG programmes and 80 credits for PGT programmes in each semester.   For programmes offering full-year modules, the credits will be evenly divided between the Autumn and Spring for the purpose of calculating the maximum credits.
Dissertations will usually be set as  SUM (summer) offerings for PGT to avoid exceeding maximum credit split per semester.
Specify if modules are existing or new ones being submitted for approval.
Consider the balance between directed and self-directed learning in the programme as a whole and adhere to the University policy on minimum expectations for levels of teaching and learning activity.
Please consult the following for more information about the University's minimum expectations for levels of teaching and learning activity:
Minimum expectations for levels of teaching and learning activity
Please consult the following for more information on semester dates relating to the general teaching and examination periods at the University:
University calendar dates
2.3.3 Non-compensatable modules
Please indicate for each module whether it can be compensated (Compensatable with a Y) or not (Non-compensatable with an N) under University’s regulations for the compensation of fail marks.
Please consult the following for more information about the University's assessment and marking policies:
Assessment and marking policies
Please be aware of the following:
A non-compensatable module is one which must to be passed at the relevant level (40% for honours degrees, 50% for masters' degrees, PG Certificates and PG Diplomas).  A student has the opportunity to resit the module for progression purposes (except in their final year of undergraduate study), but they must achieve over the minimum level in one of their attempts to be awarded the credits for that module.
In contrast, compensatable modules allow a failed mark to be compensated by better performance in other modules provided the student meets the requirements set out in the relevant study regulations. For example, a poor performance of 35% in a compensatable module may be balanced out by a good performance of 60% in another module.
2.3.4 Additional components
Where programmes allow for students to have a free choice for a module, please ensure that additional groups are added.  For additional groups, please specify how many credits (or range of credits) students must take from that group.  Please also specify the timing of these additional components within the programme.
For more information, please consult the following QM page:
Academic regulations
2.3.5 Assessment
The programme must adhere to the University's Undergraduate and Postgraduate taught assessment regulations.
All teaching and assessment must be in English, except where the subject of study is a language or literature other than English.
Please consult the following for more information:
Academic regulations
2.3.5 Progression information:
2.3.5.1 Undergraduate
Standard University progression regulations will apply except in the following circumstances: integrated masters' programmes; honours degrees with a compulsory year out; and between a foundation year and qualifying year. In these cases, non-standard progression regulations can apply if clearly stated in the programme specification.
For integrated masters' programmes, where applied, the single allowable enhanced progression requirement is that a student must achieve a weighted average mark of at least 55% at the first attempt.
Regulation 20 states that a student can proceed carrying up to 20 credits if they have not progressed by September. Programme specifications may state an opt-out if it is impossible or unwise for a student to proceed carrying credits. Possible circumstances where an exception may be permitted include:
2+2 programme students coming from University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM) and University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC) – where the Home Office would not issue a visa unless the student has progressed
Programmes that could not cope with the additional resource or facilities implications of additional students – for example, those with placements
Cases where it is essential for a student to have passed (as opposed to have taken) a pre-requisite module before starting the next part of their programme.
Progression from a foundation programme to an honours degree
Any requests for exemption must be approved by Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) and noted in the programme specification.
2.3.5.2 Postgraduate
Where schools require students to pass or to perform at a particular minimum level in the taught stage of a programme before progressing to the research stage (that is, the dissertation or research project) this will be explicitly stated in the programme specification.
2.3.6 Degree information:
2.3.6.1 Undergraduate
The standardised weighting for a bachelor’s degree must be 33/67 for Parts I and II respectively, and that the standardised weighting for an integrated master’s degree (undergraduate) must be 20/40/40 for Parts I, II and III respectively, unless exempted from this due to professional, statutory, regulatory body (PSRB)requirements.
Undergraduate degree classification is based on the weighted (arithmetic) mean mark achieved over identified stages (with defined weightings given to the stages being considered).
If the award of an ordinary degree is available to students not meeting honours requirements this must be stated clearly in the programme specification and an ordinary degree programme specification must be held on Campus Solutions.
For more information about UG classification, compensation and borderline regulations, please consult the following:
Marking and classification
Please note that from 2015/2016 transfer to the ordinary degree is not allowed. The award of the ordinary degree on exit is only allowed at the UK campus and University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC).
2.3.6.2 Postgraduate
Postgraduate masters, diploma and certificates will be awarded with merit to students who achieve a final credit-weighted mark of at least 60% and with distinction to students who achieve a final credit-weighted mark of at least 70%.
In addition, please note the following:
In accordance with the regulations on marking and grading, viva voce examinations must not be used to decide whether or not a borderline candidate will have their degree class raised.
For more information about PGT classification, compensation and borderline regulations, please consult the following:
PGT Academic Regulations
2.3.7 Pathways
Please provide here details of any additional awards made by the University, e.g. ‘Distinction in Spoken French’ and/or any named Pathways* that may be awarded.
*pathways are for the purpose of the award title, not for managing programme structures or enrolments and allow for a ‘specialism’ to be added to the title on the degree, and thus where the inclusion of a Pathway(s) has been approved, the School is then responsible for updating the programme specification of the existing programme to state what criteria would need to be met to have specialism added.  The award title will take the format: Subject (Pathway) for example BSc Hons Animal Science (Physiology).
Please note that pathways would NOT result in being able to recruit programmes individually by specialism i.e. applications must be to the main title.
2.3.8 Fall back options
Please state here the title of the award which may be given to students who fail to meet the requirements of this degree.  Where the title differs from that of the main award specific approval will be required.
Regulations may deviate from standard if there is a demonstrable requirement dictated by a PSRB or accrediting body. Any such requirement must be explicitly outlined in the programme specification. Students failing to satisfy the more stringent requirements outlined in programme specifications associated with a PSRB or accrediting body, yet satisfying University regulations must have the option to transfer to a named ‘fall back’ non-accredited degree.
Exceptions to this rule arise only where PSRB or local government mandates prevent the award of a ‘fallback’ degree or when a suitable ‘fallback’ option is unavailable. In such instances, this information must be clearly articulated in the programme specification.
Where a fallback award (Foundation Certificate, UG Certificate, UG Diploma, PG Certificate, PG Diploma) has a different title than the original programme this must be explicitly stated in the programme specification.  For example, the title may differ due to lack of accreditation, or it may not be appropriate to award the title to someone of lower credit value awards.
2.3.9 Other regulations
Specify any other requirements for students which are in addition to those stated in the University’s regulations and the University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (UNQF).
If the programme's total absolute maximum is less than those defined on the Maximum period from initial registration for completion of studies page, this must be explicitly stated. For more information, please consult the following:
Registration, attendance and study
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
Maximum period from initial registration for the completion of studies
2.4 Learning outcomes
If sections B, C, or D of the programme specification vary significantly based on the mode of delivery, consider submitting separate programme specifications for each version.
2.4.1 Definition
Learning outcomes are (relatively) general statements indicating what a student is expected to know, understand and/or be able to demonstrate at the end of a period of learning. They are phrases which complete a sentence of the form "A student who completes this programme successfully would be expected to …", or "… would be able to …".
It is good practice for learning outcomes to comprise a verb, object and context. An example (from Human Development) would be "Critically examine (verb) theoretical frameworks (object) relevant to neonatal development and adaption (context)". All three parts are needed to make the learning outcome workable.
Learning outcomes play a crucial role in the design of programmes and modules, establishing a clear connection with the content and objectives. The purpose of assessment is to enable students the opportunity to demonstrate the extent to which they have achieved the intended learning outcomes.
Programme learning outcomes must align with the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) Subject Benchmark Statement, the level descriptors in the University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (UNQF) and any professional or statutory body requirements. Please consult the following for more information:
Benchmarks on the QAA site
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
A curriculum map, provided as part of the programme approval (or curriculum change) process, will demonstrate how module learning outcomes fulfil to the learning outcomes of the programme.
2.4.2 Categories of learning outcomes
It is reasonable to have up to six learning outcomes for a module, with some variability depending on the credit value of the modules (typically with less learning outcomes for smaller credit sizes), and between 12 and 16 for a programme. Some cases, may warrant additional learning outcomes, for example due to PSRB requirements etc
Module learning outcomes may be specific to the module, the programme, or a combination of module and programme learning outcomes.
It is advisable to minimise the reoccurrence of the same learning outcome across multiple modules. This minimises the number of learning outcomes in each module and avoids assessing the same learning outcomes multiple times.
Levels of assessment required to meet learning outcomes will be checked through the approval of the curriculum map.
For further information please see module specification guidance:
Module Specification Guidance
Learning outcomes for both programmes and modules should be written under one or both of the following two categories (other categorisations may be used where there are PSRB requirements):
1.   Knowledge and understanding
These are outcomes which broadly describe the subject matter of the programme or module.
2.   Skills
These are outcomes which can come under one or more of the following three sub-headings:
Intellectual skills – the abilities required to process the subject matter
Professional or practical skills – those skills specific to a particular subject area, such as laboratory or field work, or the requirements of a specific professional or regulatory body
Transferable or key skills – more specific skills which will commonly comprise most of the following:
Oral and written communication
Team work
Self management
Problem solving
Critical thinking
Professionalism
Information technology literacy
Numeracy
2.4.3 Assessing and attaining learning outcomes within modules
To achieve a learning outcome within a module, it is expected that a student at a minimum, has had the opportunity to acquire the necessary knowledge and develop the required skills, ultimately passing the module.
2.4.4 Attaining learning outcomes within programmes
The learning outcomes listed for a programme are expected to accurately reflect the modules on which a student can expect to enrol as part of that programme.
In some instances, meeting all the learning outcomes specified for a programme may be mandatory for example, due to Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies (PSRB) requirements.
Provide a brief summary of the teaching, learning and assessment methods used to enable these learning outcomes to be achieved and demonstrated. For example:
Teaching and learning*: Lectures; tutor-led tutorials; student and tutor led seminars; on-line tutorials; problem-based learning scenarios.
Assessment: coursework*: written seen or unseen examinations; poster presentation.
These statements are expected to demonstrate how the programme has been structured to enable students to achieve the intended learning outcomes in terms of workload, volume and nature of assessment, programme progression and increasing intellectual demand.  They are expected to be general, not specific, in nature.
2.5 Curriculum map
Please map the learning outcomes of the programme against the modules comprising the programme.
The curriculum map must show that a student cannot successfully complete the programme without having acquired all the learning outcomes listed in Section D of the programme specification. This can be demonstrated by ensuring that for each learning outcome there is at least one compulsory, non-compensatable module which delivers that outcome; or that the outcome features in a range of modules, such that it would not be possible for the student to complete the programme without passing at least one of those modules.
New/revised curriculum maps are required with all new and changed programme specification.
A template for a curriculum map can be found here:
Curriculum map
This template curriculum map is provided as a guide.  Where there are PSRB requirements for a different format, this may be used.
2.6 Delivery plan
Please provide a full plan mapping out the timelines for the programme.
3.0 Related regulations, policies and procedures
For more information about the information in a programme specification document, please consult the following:
Programme specification template
For more information about the information in a module specification docuemtn, please consult the following:
Module specification guidance
If you have any problems or queries relating to Programme specification guidance, please email:
ss-curriculumadvice@nottingham.ac.uk
4.0 Version control table
Version control table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Clarifications made as part of a review of this section of the Quality Manual.  Also reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework
QSC
August 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to Programme specification guidance, please email:
ss-curriculumadvice@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
20 September 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/registration-and-attendance/withdrawal-from-study.aspx
Header: Withdrawal from Study
Intro: This page provides regulations, processes and associated implications that apply when a student  withdraws from their studies.  This information is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Withdrawal from Study - The University of NottinghamWithdrawal from Study
This page provides regulations, processes and associated implications that apply when a student  withdraws from their studies.  This information is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Please note that students in the UK on a Student Route visa are also affected by the University’s Policy on Immigration Sponsorship. Where academic policies and immigration policies seem to be contradictory, immigration policies will take precedence. For more information, please consult the following:
Immigration sponsorship
1.0 Purpose
The term ‘withdrawal’ is a broad term which indicates the process by which a student may leave the University other than through the successful completion of their programme of study. This page provides information on the process that a student may use to do this and ways that the University can instigate this process. There are funding and, where relevant, Visa implications to withdrawal.
2.0 Key Principles
2.1 Student-Led Withdrawal
Where a student no longer wishes to continue with their programme of study, they may withdraw from the University. To withdraw, the student must follow the procedure described in 3.0 Roles and Responsibilities.
2.2 University-Led Withdrawal
Students may be withdrawn from their programme of study and the University for a variety of reasons:
Outcome of the fitness to practise process
Failure to abide by University Regulations (e.g. non-payment of fees)
External compliance issues (e.g. UKVI regulations)
Student fails (or ceases) to attend or engage in their programme, according to Academic Regulations
Student fails to arrive or enrol for their studies in the academic year
Death of a student
The process for withdrawal in these circumstances can be found in the relevant sections of the Quality Manual.
2.3 Fees and Funding
Withdrawal from the University will have financial implications in relation to, for example, funding to the University, fees due to the University, maintenance loans stipend or other funding that a student receives.  Schools should always remind students of the need to consult their funding body, the Funding team and the Fees and Charges team (UK) and the Finance Office (Malaysia) before withdrawing from their programme of study.
3.0 Roles and Responsibilities
Students considering withdrawal are advised to discuss their circumstances with their Personal Tutor and/or Course Director (or in the case of PGR students, with their Supervisor), who will be able to help the student decide if a withdrawal is the appropriate course of action, before submitting their withdrawal form, which can be found below.
The student is responsible for completing the forms as described below.
When a student withdraws from their study, their registration and status with the University is cancelled and all relevant authorities (where known) will be informed.
It is the student’s responsibility to ensure that any sponsor or legal requirements are complied with when withdrawing.
For apprentices, the Professional and Work-based Learning team will oversee the funding and contractual process.
Students who withdraw from study are advised to consult the Visa and Immigration Team for immigration advice before submitting their withdrawal form to the relevant Student Service Centre or equivalent office.
4.0 Procedural Steps
4.1 Process for student-led withdrawal
Students must submit the relevent form from the list below to Student Services
Notification of withdrawal (from the University)
Notification of withdrawal (PGR students only)
Notification of withdrawal (from the university)
Notification of withdrawal (PGR students only)
5.0 Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures
Funding and financial support
Fees and payments
Student Services Centre
Help with your visa
Relevant forms for each campus
Notification of withdrawal (from the University)
Notification of withdrawal (PGR students only)
Notification of withdrawal (from the university)
Notification of withdrawal (PGR students only)
6.0 Version Control Table
Version Control Table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with the new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework, based on content last modified on 11th July 2023
QSC
July 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
UG and PGT students:
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
PGR students:
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
31 July 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-deg-pols-and-guidance.aspx
Header: Research degree policies and guidance
Intro: This section contains the policies and procedures that guide the University's research degree programmes. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Research degree policies and guidance - The University of NottinghamResearch degree policies and guidance
This section contains the policies and procedures that guide the University's research degree programmes. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Pages within this section
Induction and training
Registration, attendance and study
Resources and facilities
Responsibilities of the student
Responsibilities of the Postgraduate Student Advisor
Responsibilities of the School
Policy on PGR maternity / paternity / adoption leave
Policy on PGR sick leave
Postgraduate researchers studying away / in outside organisations
Please be aware that during academic year 2019/20, the University introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. A number of pages within this category were previously affected by these arrangements;
the exceptional regulations can be viewed here
.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
22 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-progression.aspx
Header: Progression
Intro: This section provides guidance on the procedure for the progression review of research students, and the thesis pending period including policy on extension. These pages are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Progression - The University of NottinghamProgression
This section provides guidance on the procedure for the progression review of research students, and the thesis pending period including policy on extension. These pages are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Pages within this section
Progression review of research students
The thesis pending period (including Policy on extension)
Please be aware that during academic year 2019/20, the University introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. A number of pages within this category were previously affected by these arrangements;
the exceptional regulations can be viewed here
.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
22 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supervision.aspx
Header: Supervision
Intro: This section contains information on the appointment of postgraduate supervisors, their responsibilities and the procedure for changing supervisor. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supervision - The University of NottinghamSupervision
This section contains information on the appointment of postgraduate supervisors, their responsibilities and the procedure for changing supervisor. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Please be aware that due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, some of our pages and regulations have been amended as part of the University's mitigation efforts. Where this applies, it will be clearly indicated.
Pages within this section
Appointment of supervisors
Responsibilities of the supervisor   ** Amended for Covid-19 **
Change of supervisor
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 June 2023||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-assessment.aspx
Header: Assessment
Intro: This section contains information on the procedures for different types of assessment, including viva voce examinations, applications for restrictions on a thesis and the role and appointment of examiners. These pages are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Assessment - The University of NottinghamAssessment
This section contains information on the procedures for different types of assessment, including viva voce examinations, applications for restrictions on a thesis and the role and appointment of examiners. These pages are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Pages within this section
Procedures for assessment
Viva voce examinations
Alternative formats of thesis submission
Applications for a restriction or embargo to be placed on a thesis
Role and appointment of examiners for research degree programmes
Role and responsibilities of the internal assessor
Please be aware that during academic year 2019/20, the University introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. A number of pages within this category were previously affected by these arrangements;
the exceptional regulations can be viewed here
.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
22 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-prog-regs.aspx
Header: Research programme regulations
Intro: This section contains the regulations for a variety of different research programmes, including regulations for subject specific masters degrees, as well as regulations for higher doctorates. These pages are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Research programme regulations - The University of NottinghamResearch programme regulations
This section contains the regulations for a variety of different research programmes, including regulations for subject specific masters degrees, as well as regulations for higher doctorates. These pages are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Pages within this section
Regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) and Master of Philosophy (MPhil)
Supplementary regulations for other doctoral programmes
Regulations for the degree of Master of research (MRes)
Regulations for the degree of Master of Arts (MA) by research and Master of Science (MSc) by research
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Veterinary Medicine / Master of Veterinary Surgery (MVM / MVS)
Regulations for Higher Doctorates
Please be aware that during academic year 2019/20, the University introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. A number of pages within this category were previously affected by these arrangements;
the exceptional regulations can be viewed here
.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
22 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-regs-for-progs-not-running.aspx
Header: Regulations for programmes which are not currently running
Intro: This section contains the regulations for programmes which are not currently running. These pages are primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all fo the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Regulations for programmes which are not currently running - The University of NottinghamRegulations for programmes which are not currently running
This section contains the regulations for programmes which are not currently running. These pages are primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all fo the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Pages within this section
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Musical Arts (AMusM)
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Musical Arts (AMusD)
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Architecture (DArch)
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Social Sciences (DASS)
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Psychology (Educational) (DAppPsyEd)
Regulations for Subject Specific Masters by Research Degrees
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 June 2023||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-regs-mres-presept20.aspx
Header: Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2020
Intro: This page contains the regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2020, including admissions, examination and award of degree information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2020 - The University of NottinghamRegulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2020
This page contains the regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2020, including admissions, examination and award of degree information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview and supplementary regulations
These regulations are applicable to students starting programmes in or after September 2019. For students commencing their programmes before this date, the Master of Research Regulations (pre-September 2019) will apply.
For more information about the previous regulations, please consult the following:
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2019
Students from countries that are not familiar with the MRes qualification may, alternatively, be awarded a MA or MSc by Research in order not to disadvantage those students. The regulations for these awards will, though, be exactly the same as for the MRes. This will also be permitted, with QSC approval, where required by professional, regulatory or accrediting bodies.
Admissions requirement
1.
Requirements for admission to a research degree are set out in the Academic entry requirements page, which can be found here:
Academic entry requirements
Programme of study
2.
Students will be admitted to a one year, full-time (two years, part-time) programme of study.
Taught and thesis elements
3.
Students are required to study modules worth 180 credits, of which 60 credits must be obtained from taught modules at Level 4 and from the Research Training Programme run by the Graduate School or other units offering generic training within the University, or from within any other generic training courses run within individual Schools. The remaining 120 credits must be obtained from a thesis module at Level 4. Any taught modules and research training taken must be clearly cognate with the student’s research topic.  Supervision while undertaking the thesis module will be as set out in the module specification and in line with the requirements for supervision contained in the regulations for research degrees.
4.
In cases where 60 credits of modules of the requisite level and subject matter are not available, supplementary regulations may stipulate a smaller number of taught/training credits and a thesis module of more than 120 credits (such that the overall number of credits remains at 180). In these circumstances, the maximum word length of the thesis may be greater than that stated in Regulation 6 (in the Assessment section) below and the compensation arrangements stated in Regulation 10 (in the Outcomes of examination section) below will not apply.
Transfer to PhD
5.
A candidate shall not be permitted to count the same period of research for both the degree of Master of Research (MRes) and the degree of PhD. However a candidate for the MRes degree may, after a period of not less than nine months study for the MRes and prior to the submission of the thesis, with the approval of the supervisor and Head of School (or equivalent), submit an application to the University for permission to be registered as a candidate for the degree of PhD instead of a Master of Research. The period of registration for the degree of PhD should normally be three years (and not less than two years) full-time from the initial date of registration for the MRes.
Assessment
Includes:
module specifications; submitting thesis before end of registered study; viva voce examinations
6.
The assessment of all modules is as set out in the specifications for those modules. In regard to the thesis module, the maximum word length of the thesis is 25,000 words. The maximum word limit is inclusive of appendices, footnotes, tables and bibliography. The Thesis should embody the result of the candidate’s advanced study and research.
From September 2020 all students are subject to Regulation 6 from the September 2020 regulations, which can be found here:
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) from September 2020
7.
Students are required to submit their thesis prior to the end of the period of registered study. Two copies of the thesis should be submitted to Student Services or equivalent (in a form prescribed by the University), who will forward the thesis to the Examiners. The thesis should not, whether in the same or a different form, have been submitted to this or any other University for the award of any degree.
8.
The thesis must be the result of the student’s own work. The requirement does not preclude a student obtaining limited assistance with proof-reading and with the routine collection and/or processing of data under guidelines and instructions clearly devised by the student. When such help is obtained it should be with the prior approval of the supervisor who must be satisfied that the spirit of the 'own work' requirement is not breached.
9.
The thesis is examined by both an External Examiner and an Internal Examiner appointed under the regulations governing the assessment of research degrees, who should provide independent reports on the thesis, indicating whether the thesis module has been passed; and also whether a viva voce examination is necessary. Where a viva voce examination is required by the examiners, this should be conducted in line with the relevant regulations for MPhil degrees.
For more information about the Viva voce examinations, please consult the following:
Viva voce examinations
Outcomes of examination
Includes:
award of degree; where a student obtains a fail mark or failed thesis or training credits; nottingham etheses service
10.
The degree is awarded where all taught modules and training credits and the thesis module have been passed. The pass mark for all taught modules is 50%, but marks of 40%-49% can be compensated in up to 20 credits if the overall average for the taught modules taken is 50% or over. Training credits will be assessed on a pass/fail basis.
11.
Where a student obtains a fail mark in a taught module that is not compensated, or fails the thesis module or training credits, the student has one further opportunity to pass those modules. All reassessments must be completed within one year of the end of the student's period of registered study.
12.
The qualification awarded to the student will include the subject of study undertaken as notified to the student at the time of admission.
13.
Successful candidates will be eligible to graduate once their thesis has been uploaded to the University’s eTheses service and approved by the Internal Examiner or, in cases where there are two external examiners, the lead External Examiner. For more information, please consult the following:
Nottingham eTheses
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/admissions/admissions.aspx
Header: Admissions
Intro: This section contains procedures which may be relevant to some current and prospective students in relation to University and course admission. These pages are applicable across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses and may be of interest to staff, students or the general public.
Content:
Admissions - The University of NottinghamAdmissions
This section contains procedures which may be relevant to some current and prospective students in relation to University and course admission. These pages are applicable across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses and may be of interest to staff, students or the general public.Pages within this section
Admissions procedures
Admissions procedures for applicants with a disability or long-term medical condition
Admissions procedures for applicants with criminal convictions
Alternative programme offers
Withdrawal of offer
Informing applicants about significant changes to a course of study prior to registration
Admissions feedback, appeals and complaints
Policy on applicant complaints
Applicant complaints procedure
Policy on inappropriate applicant behaviour
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK
Admission queries UNUK
UNNC
Admission queries UNNC
UNM
Admissions queries UNM
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
12 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/viva-voce-examinations.aspx
Header: Viva voce examinations
Intro: This page sets out the procedures for viva voce examinations, including advice on timings, location, format and attendance. It content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Viva voce examinations - The University of NottinghamViva voce examinations
This page sets out the procedures for viva voce examinations, including advice on timings, location, format and attendance. It content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1. Timing of viva voce examination
The Head of School has overall responsibility for ensuring that viva voce examinations normally take place within
3 months
of the submission of the thesis to Student Services, the Student Registry Office at UNM or  the Graduate School at UNNC, and that the appropriate Office is informed of the dates of viva voce examinations.
2. Location for viva voce examination
The viva voce examination (if required, as will be the case for doctoral degrees) will normally take place at the University.
However, the Head of School may give permission in appropriate circumstances for the viva voce examination to be held in another location or through online means provided agreement of the Examiners and the student is obtained and the proposed location/format is one that is deemed by them all to be suitable for the purpose.
These decisions will be indicated on the Nomination of Examiners form, which will alert Registry and Academic Affairs to the proposed arrangements.
Guidance and recommendations on the conduct of a digital/online viva voce examination
3. Format
If circumstances demand it, a viva voce examination may be organised in another form (e.g. by a video conference/other online platform).
Before agreeing such an arrangement the School must check that appropriate facilities for an online viva voce are available to all participants, and shall ensure they have written confirmation that the student and the Examiners have agreed to the proposal. Hybrid viva conditions with only the candidate located remotely are not permitted. If a hybrid viva is unavoidable, if and where possible, the candidate should be co-located with either the Internal Examiner or Independent Chair.
If an online viva voce format is agreed by all parties, this cannot subsequently be used as grounds for an appeal. Recording of the viva is not permitted, and no evidence based on unauthorised recordings of the viva will be permissible in any appeal process.
4. Appointment of the Chair
If Schools wish to do so, an independent, non-examining Chair may be appointed to preside over the viva proceedings in order to ensure consistency between different vivas and to provide an additional viewpoint if the conduct of the viva should become the subject of a student appeal.
Where the appointment of an independent Chair is not feasible, Schools should find alternative ways of assuring fairness and consistency which are acceptable to the student.
Where vivas are being conducted by online methods where all parties are at different locations, an independent non-examining Chair must be appointed. Other circumstances when an Independent Chair must be appointed are detailed in additional guidance.
Circumstances under which an independent Chair should be appointed
When appointed or required for an online viva, the independent Chair will chair the viva and be present throughout but not take an active role in the examination or decision making.
Appointment, role and responsibilities of the independent Chair
5. Attendance at proceedings
Supervisors may not normally attend the viva voce examination. If concerns about process or PGR support or performance are raised, an independent Chair should attend to ensure fairness and consistency of examination process.
The Head of School has a right to attend as an observer at the viva voce examination of any research student in their School, unless they are the student's supervisor, in which case a deputy should be appointed to attend in their place (see paragraph 13 of the Role and Appointment of Examiners for the right to attend as a supervisor). For more information, please consult the following:
Role and Appointment of Examiners
Before the viva voce examination takes place the Head of School should first inform the Examiners, the student and the supervisor that they intend to attend. The Examiners may request that the Head of School attend a viva voce examination.
If the viva voce is held online, the candidate may request that they have a supporter/observer present with them either for the entire viva, and/or for the communication of the decision. This individual must not contribute in any way to the viva, and must be introduced to all participants on camera at the start.
6. Purpose of viva
The viva will include questions and discussions that determine whether the candidate has achieved the required doctoral outcomes.
For more information about the UNQF, please consult the following:
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
This will normally include questions and discussion designed to: ascertain that the thesis embodies the candidate’s own research; clarify aspects of the research presented in the thesis to ensure understanding; test the candidate’s general comprehension of the field of study within which the subject of the thesis falls; test the candidate’s acquaintance with the general literature of the subject and knowledge of the relationship of the work to the wider field of which it is a part; and determine the respects in which the work advances, modifies, or otherwise affects this wider field of scholarship.
7. Completion of Joint Report Form
Following the viva voce examination the Examiners will complete and sign the Joint Report Form and shall come to agreement on the recommendation on the award (or not) of the degree.
The option not to award any degree following the first examination is one which should only be chosen in extreme circumstances.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
22 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/prog-and-mod-design-and-approval/prog-design-development-approval.aspx
Header: Programme design, development and approval
Intro: This page contains instructions for the approval of new programmes of study, including approval of new programmes by change. Its content is primarily directed at staff, and may also be of interest to students, across the UK, China and Malaysia campuses
Content:
Programme design, development and approval - The University of NottinghamProgramme design, development and approval
This page contains instructions for the approval of new programmes of study, including approval of new programmes by change. Its content is primarily directed at staff, and may also be of interest to students, across the UK, China and Malaysia campuses1. Purpose
This page contains instructions for the approval of new programmes of study to be offered by the University on all campuses. This includes approval for new mico-credential programmes offered by UoNO.
The purpose of the approval process is to ensure that appropriate academic standards are set and maintained, and that programmes offered to students make available learning opportunities which enable the intended learning outcomes to be achieved.
2.0 Key principles
To meet the responsibility for academic standards and quality of learning opportunities, please consult the UK Quality code for HE advice and guidance, QAA Characteristics statements and QAA Subject benchmark statements (see links below). The University regulations on minimum expectations relating to teaching and learning must also be consulted.
2.1 Free speech
When developing a new programme, appropriate regard must be given to the importance of promoting free speech.
Please consult the following for further information about the Freedom of Speech Act:
Free Speech and Academic Freedom at the University of Nottingham
Office for Students guidance on free speech.
2.2 Academic freedom
In relation to programme and module development, approval, and delivery, it should be noted that academics would not be prohibited from developing or delivering a programme or module on the ground that it involves giving serious consideration to ‘controversial or unpopular opinions’. This is not a reason that the programme would be approved, rather it is not a reason it could be declined. For instance, there will remain business or logistical reasons to not grant approval to a programme or module.
2.3 Timeline for approval and CMA considerations (UNUK Only)
To meet the university’s UKs publishing deadlines for the undergraduate and postgraduate prospectus, and to achieve a full cycle of marketing, Schools must aim for their programme to be developed and approved at least 5 weeks ahead of the publishing deadlines in the table below.
UK Prospectus publishing dates for UG and PGT programmes
Undergraduate
1 March in the calendar year before students commence the course (e.g. 1 March 2025 for 26/27 entry with changes to prospectus information being completed by 1 December 2024)
Postgraduate Taught
1 July in the calendar year before students commence the course (e.g. 1 July 2025 for 26/27 entry with changes to prospectus information being completed by 1 April 2025)
There may be occasions when Schools request the introduction of a new programme after the release of the online prospectus. Each request will be carefully considered by RAA, Marketing, Admissions, the Legal team and other key individuals in the University as appropriate. For new programmes, the main consideration would be whether there would be a viable cohort of students recruited without a full marketing and recruitment cycle. In these circumstances the Faculty Pro Vice Chancellor (FPVC) or FPVC nominee will be presented with information about potential recruitment or CMA risks and asked to decide whether to proceed as planned or delay, weighing up the benefits against the outlined potential risks.
2.4 Latest dates for programme approval (all campuses)
The latest possible dates for programme approval are detailed in the table below.
Colleagues should consider building in time contingences to their development timelines to allow for possible delays, for example if the Programme Review Panel ask for major revisions to be submitted to the next panel or if the stakeholder consultation surfaces issues which need time to be resolved. It is recommended that colleagues aim for one or two panels earlier than the latest possible dates to ensure programmes are approved in time for planned start dates.
Latest dates for obtaining university approval for new programmes
Require UCAS recruitment
Require timetabling
Latest date for university approval
Yes
Yes
1 March in the calendar year before students commence the course
No
Yes
31 January in the same calendar year students commence the course
No
No
31 July in the same calendar year students commence the course
For further advice and guidance about timelines for submission and approval, please email:
ss-curriculumadvice@nottingham.ac.uk
3.0 Roles and responsibilities
Endorsement from the School and Faculty must be sought prior to developing a new programme of study. Then, the School are responsible for completing the programme outline form and for preparing the appropriate business case (see below). This includes liaison with stakeholders e.g. affected Schools, employers, students and external advice as appropriate.
RAA colleagues will review the programme outline form and later the appropriate business case (or form) and liaise with necessary University colleagues.
4.0 Procedural steps
The process set out i below should be read in conjunction with the programme approval process flow charts for each campus, which can be accessed here:
Programme approval process flow chart (UNUK)
Programme approval process flow chart (UNM)
Programme approval process flow chart (UNNC)
Please note, colleagues in UNM and UNNC complete each of the required steps for new programme approval but vary the order of completion due to local campus structures. These are reflected in the flow charts.
4.1.   School and Faculty endorsement
Endorsement from the School and Faculty must be sought prior to developing a new programme of study. In the UK, endorsement at School level must come from the Head of School, Head of School nominee or School Committee, and endorsement at Faculty level must come from the Faculty Pro Vice Chancellor (FPVC), FPVC nominee or Faculty level committee (e.g. Faculty Education and Student Experience Committee). In UNM endorsement must come from Head of School or Faculty Teaching and Learning Committee. In UNNC endorsement at School level must come from the School Meeting and endorsement at Faculty level must come from Faculty Executive Board.
Consideration should be given at this stage as to whether the new programme contributes to School, Faculty and University level strategic priorities.
There may be local variations for seeking endorsement depending on Campus and/or School structures; however, at the end of this stage there must be clear support from both the School and the Faculty to proceed to the next stage.
Endorsement can be recorded via email or noted in committee minutes. Colleagues are advised to keep evidence of this for future audit purposes.
4.2   Completion of programme outline form
Once endorsement from School and Faculty has been obtained, Schools must complete the Programme Outline form (link below) to provide a brief overview of the proposed new programme to ensure that relevant university colleagues are aware of developments.
New Programme Outline Form
4.3 University review of the new programme request
The data collected via the MS Forms will be reviewed by Registry and Academic Affairs (RAA) and shared with other internal stakeholders, as appropriate, for business planning purposes. Stakeholders include, but are not limited to:
Admissions
Marketing
Faculty Curriculum Design Managers (if applicable)
Teams within Registry and Academic Affairs
Other teams as appropriate to the programme of study or campus
Professional and Workbased Learning Team (if relevant)
The purpose of providing information this stage is to understand the number of new or revised programmes in development to prepare for business partnering and business planning. RAA will only follow up on submissions if content appears to deviate from regulations, has unusual delivery aspirations which may present problems operationally (i.e. compatibility with systems), or may present Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) regulation challenges. If there are any issues or questions, RAA will notify School colleagues promptly.  Queries at this stage need not hold up development of the business case (if applicable), but issues identified by RAA must be considered and resolved as early as possible in the development stage to save time later.
4.4.   Development and approval of business case
Business case template to use:  The School is required to develop a full business case for most new taught programmes of study using the following templates:
Full business case for a new programme of study template (UNUK)
Full business case for a new programme of study template (UNNC)
Full business case for a new programme of study template (UNM)
For new apprenticeship programmes, contact the Institute for Professional and Workbased Learning Team for support with business case development.
In the following scenarios in UNUK and UNNC only, a full business case is not required and an addendum business case or an alternative form must be used instead of the full business case template. Please note, a full business case is required for all new programmes which will be delivered at UNM.
Alternative forms are received and approved by the Curriculum Approvals and Advisory Team on behalf of QSC. See 4.5 for more information about approval of business cases and business case addendum.
Alternative forms where full business case is not required scenarios
Scenarios
Form
Introduce a new programme which is based on an existing programme of study (Mirror Programme offered on another campus)
Business case addendum
Introduce a higher award where a lower award already exists
Business case addendum
Introduce a placement or industrial year to an existing programme
MS Form
Introduce a new programme with no qualification
MS Form
Introduce a new PG Cert or PG Dip where a Masters programme already exists
MS Form
Introduce a new research degree
MS Form
Introduce a fall-back award (for exit awards only)
MS Form
Introduce a pathway(s) to an existing programme
MS Form
Please note colleagues in UNM require a full business case for all new programmes.
For further advice and guidance about development of the business case or relevant forms, please contact -
ss-curriculumadvice@nottingham.ac.uk
4.4.1 Consultation about the business case
Schools are expected to proactively engage with internal and external stakeholders, including students, alumni and employers, for appropriate advice and guidance in developing their full or addendum business case. The details of this engagement with stakeholders must be recorded in the appropriate section of the full or addendum business case document.
An up-to-date list of internal contacts is available to assist with this process, which can be accessed here:
Internal contacts for business case support (UNUK)
Internal contacts for business case support (UNNC)
Internal contacts for business case support (UNM)
Other sources of appropriate advice might include:
Internal academic staff from related subject areas
Contacts made through partnerships with other educational institutions, industry, professional practice or through research collaborations
Contacts from academic subject associations and Advanced HE
Employers, for example, through industrial advisory boards
Organisations in communities with which the programme may be involved.
Key stakeholders, as identified in the full business case template, must complete the recommendation section, reporting any areas of concern which need addressing. Recommendation options for key stakeholders are:
1 – Support
2 – Support with amendments
3 – Do not support
4.4.2 External advice for the business case
External experts, including relevant Professional, Regulatory and Statutory Bodies (PSRBs), employers and other external stakeholders, contribute to course design and review. Schools are expected to seek appropriate external advice for all new programme submissions which require a full business case.  The external advice form must be submitted with the business case.
The external advice form can be accessed here:
External advice for a new programme of study form
4.5. Approval of full or addendum business case
It is expected that full consideration will be given to business viability, recommendations and feedback from stakeholders and external advice on the business case. Business cases will not proceed further in the process without appropriate sign off.
Business cases may be held at this stage until the relevant authority is satisfied (i.e. if revisions, further development, evidence, or consultation is needed) or be rejected.
4.5.1 UK Campuses
When the full or addendum business case is completed (as applicable), the School must fill out the Submission of Business Case form and attach the full or addendum business case  to it. The external advice form must also be submitted along with any full business case.
The Submission of business case form can be found here:
Submission of a business case (UNUK) - MS Form
The submitted form will be automatically routed to the Faculty Pro Vice Chancellor (FPVC) or FPVC nominee for consideration and sign off.  The paperwork then gets sent to RAA for the next step in the process.
UK Apprenticeship programmes require further approval from the Pro-Vice Chancellor for Education and Student Experience and the Academic Director of Degree Apprenticeships.
4.5.2 UNM / UNNC Campuses
In UNNC, when the full or addendum business case is completed (as applicable), the School must send the business case (with accompanying external advice form for full business cases) to the Planning and Resources Committee for non-curriculum sections approval and then for approval  by the Education and Student Experience Committee.
In UNM, when the full or addendum business case is completed (as applicable), the School must send the business case (with accompanying external advice form for full business cases) to  the Campus Teaching and Learning Committee, Planning and Resources Committee and the Global Engagement Committee (if applicable).
Once the business cases are approved as above, then the approved business cases and accompanying external advice forms (as appliable) must be emailed to
ss-curriculumadvice@nottingham.ac.uk
for the next step in the process.
4.6. Development of curriculum documentation
The next step in the process is for the School to prepare the curriculum documentation, i.e. the programme specification, the module specification and the curriculum map, plus any partnership agreements (if required).
Upon receipt of the approved full or addendum business case, RAA will assign a Business Partner to work with the School to assist in the development of their curriculum documentation (programme specification, module specifications and curriculum map).
The partnering process will ensure Schools receive appropriate and useful advice about University regulations and operability of programmes of study in any systems. RAA will seek advice from relevant professional services colleagues on any areas which might need specialist input.
If the new programme also requires a partnership agreement, Schools must submit curriculum documentation with the partnership agreement to the Partnership Operational Development Meeting (POD) so they can be considered together.
The Business Partner from RAA will confirm with the School when they are satisfied that all the curriculum documentation is completed, and any concerns about operability or adherence with Quality Manual regulations have been addressed.  At this point, the application will proceed to the next stage.
4.7. Consultation on curriculum documentation
RAA will make available the curriculum documentation (programme specification, module specifications, curriculum map, partnership agreement), external advice and full/addendum business case (as applicable) to a wide range of internal stakeholders across the University, including Schools, Faculties and Professional Services Departments, for a two-week period for scrutiny. This is the final opportunity for stakeholder queries to be raised.
During this process the stakeholders may send comments/queries for the School to address.
The School must respond to the comments/queries raised by stakeholders during this consultation process in a timely manner and address them to the stakeholder’s satisfaction.  Otherwise this may lead to delays in approval.
Any unresolved issues raised during this consultation period will be referred to a Programme Review Panel for consideration and approval (see below).
4.8. New Programme approval – no outstanding issues
Programmes of study which have full stakeholder support for the full/addendum business case (if applicable), no unresolved issues from the consultation with stakeholders, and do not present any challenging operational or regulatory issues, will be approved by the Associate Director (Curriculum & Timetabling) or the Senior Manager (Head of Curriculum) on behalf of Quality and Standards Committee (QSC).
4.9 New Programme Approval - at a Programme Review Panel
All other programmes will be put forward for consideration at the next available Programme Review Panel for approval. Representatives from the School must attend the Programme Review Panel to respond to questions.
Panel dates are published prior to the start of the academic year, with around six meetings scheduled in each academic year. The ‘next available date’ will take into consideration time for the Programme Review Panel to consider the documentation in advance.  As a general guide, papers for the previous step need to be submitted to RAA at least one month prior to the Programme Review Panel to allow time to complete the two-week Stakeholder Consultation (see previous step) and for the Programme Review Panel to consider the documentation in advance.
The Programme Review Panel at a minimum will consist of two QSC members, one of which will take the role of Chair, and senior representation from the RAA: normally the Senior Manager (Head of Curriculum) or delegate. The academic lead(s) for the programme of study being considered will be expected to attend the panel and answer any queries put to them. Other colleagues may be invited to attend the panel if they have noted issues on the business case or during the consultation that are yet to be resolved.
In considering the curriculum documentation, the Programme Review Panel will:
Make a judgement on any issues that fall outside the current scope of the Quality Manual.
Review the operability of the proposed new programme, considering stakeholder feedback in relation to this.
Consider the key academic aspects of programme specification – that is, the learning outcomes and how they will be taught and assessed. This consideration will be largely limited to ensuring that the learning outcomes are appropriate to the level of qualification being awarded.
Ensure that there has been adequate consultation with other affected Schools, and that any comments or objections from these other Schools have been appropriately addressed.
Ensure that the overall programme has coherence in terms of logic in structure, intellectual integrity and assessment methods being aligned with programme content, learning outcomes and learning and teaching activities.
The Panel can either:
Approve (either outright or with minor changes which can be returned for final approval by Chair’s Action within an agreed timeframe)
Ask for major revisions to be submitted to a future panel
Reject the proposal
The decision of the Programme Review Panel will be communicated by RAA to the School and other university stakeholders.
4.10 Regulatory approval (UNM/UNNC only)
Programmes in UNM and UNNC will require a further approval from their respective local authorities before a programme is launched. In UNM approval is required from the Malaysian Qualifications Agency (MQA) and the Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE). In UNNC approval is required from the Ministry of Education (MOE). These additional approvals will be managed locally in UNM and UNNC.
4.11 After the programme is approved
After approval is obtained for the new programme (see previous steps), the programme will be created in the student records system, UCAS codes created (if applicable) and opened for marketing/recruitment.  Programme and module specifications will be published online in the Online Course Catalogue, which then becomes the definitive record.
Students may not be registered on a programme until the programme has been fully approved.
5.0 Related regulations, policies and procedures
For further advice and guidance on any aspect of programme approval, please email:
ss-curriculumadvice@nottingham.ac.uk
For more information about the UoN Qualifications Framework, please see:
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
For more information about making changes to programmes of study via the annual curriculum review cycle, please consult the following:
Changes to programme specifications
Closing or suspending a programme
New programme by change
For more information about the UK Quality Code for HE Advice and Guidance and QAA guidance, please see:
UK Quality Code for Higher Education Advice and Guidance – Course Design and Development
QAA Characteristic Statements
QAA Subject Benchmark Statements
For more information about the University's minimum expectations relating to teaching and learning, please consult the following:
Minimum expectations for levels of teaching and learning activity
Forms can be accessed here:
New Programme of Study - MS Form
For more information curriculum colleagues in RAA, please consult the following page:
Curriculum Approvals and Advisory Team (internal SharePoint)
For more information about partnership approval process please consult the following:
Partnership and Placements
For more information concerning programme specifications, please consult the following:
Programme specification guidance
For more information concerning module specifications, please consult the following:
Module specification guidance
For more information relating to external advice in the programme approval process please consult the following:
External advice in programme approval
For Programme Review panel dates, please consult the following:
Programme Review Panel dates (internal SharePoint)
6.0 Version control table
Version control table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Changes to clarify the process to request a new programme. Also, reformatted to align with the new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework
QSC
August 2024
For further advice and guidance on any aspect of programme approval, please email:
ss-curriculumadvice@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
24 February 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-progression-review-of-research-students.aspx
Header: Progression Review of research students
Intro: This page sets out the Progression Review process which applies to research degree students in all years of their programme, including basic elements, possible outcomes and appeals. Its content is relevant to staff and postgraduate researchers registered for level 7 (masters) and level 8 (doctoral) degrees across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Progression Review of research students - The University of NottinghamProgression Review of research students
This page sets out the Progression Review process which applies to research degree students in all years of their programme, including basic elements, possible outcomes and appeals. Its content is relevant to staff and postgraduate researchers registered for level 7 (masters) and level 8 (doctoral) degrees across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Please be aware that due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, some of the content on this page has now been updated as part of the University's mitigation efforts. Where this applies, it will be clearly indicated within each section below.
1. Introduction
Includes:
basic principles; Progression Review activities throughout the year; progression monitoring; Internal Assessors; maximum time for completion of thesis examination
All postgraduate researchers (PGRs) registered on research degrees lasting more than 1 year full-time or 2 years part-time (e.g. MPhil or Professional Doctorates but not MRes etc.) are subject to progression monitoring and formal review.
The basic principles of Progression Review are common to all postgraduate researchers (PGRs) and all years of programmes who go through such a review.
In all cases, the purpose of Progression Monitoring and formal review is to ensure that the progress towards meeting the required outcomes at each Stage is sufficient to ensure achievement of the doctoral (level 8) or masters (level 7) outcomes to the required standard, and completion of the thesis examination (including any viva voce examination) within the period of registered study.
For more information about the UNQF, please consult the following:
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
Relevant adjustments may need to be made for PGRs studying away from the University or following programmes that involve a significant taught element.
Part-time students
For part-time PGRs, all the processes for the Progression Review will happen every other year rather than yearly and periods of time quoted should be doubled.
Basic principles of PGR progression monitoring and review
Progress monitoring begins through regular supervisory meetings when the PGR first registers on the programme. These recorded meetings continue throughout the period of registered study and thesis completion period, until thesis submission. Formal records of these meetings should be made, agreed and held securely in the PGR’s supervision records. Progression Review information should be given to the PGR at Induction and then reinforced throughout their registered study.
For more information about responsibilities of the supervisor, please consult the following:
Responsibilities of the Supervisor
In-year progress meetings with supervisory teams can be formal or informal, one-to-one or in a group, as is appropriate for the timing and progress of the PGR.
For the recommended steps and process in planning for PGR Progression Review, please consult the following:
PGR Progression Review - Process Map
PGR Progression Review consists of formal assessment of progress against the doctoral or other relevant published outcomes through several components.
Records of progress recorded in the required minimum number of regular supervisory meetings conducted regularly throughout the period of registered study, including information on: agreed research plans and milestones; progress made; any problems encountered and solutions proposed; and any other pertinent information. As these records form part of the formal assessment of PGR progression at Progression Review, they should contain a record of, for example, any extenuating circumstances, or any concerns about progress, or reasons for congratulation on success. Records of progress meetings should be available to all the team members, including the PGR and all supervisors.
For more information about responsibilities of the supervisor, please consult the following:
Responsibilities of the Supervisor
Formal Progression Review is assessed against progress towards meeting the required outcomes at each Stage of study in the programme, usually through a written report;
Completion of mandatory elements such as training and development, taught modules, laboratory rotations, career planning, engagement with professional development opportunities, and career planning are also reviewed.
The published criteria for Stage 1, Stage 2 and Stage 3 progression are badged against the outcomes in the University of Nottingham Qualification Framework and the QAA doctoral outcomes. They are designed to enable Assessors to take a consistent and transparent approach in determining the progress of PGRs.
For more information about Assessment criteria for Progression Reviews, please consult the following:
Assessment criteria for Progression Reviews
Formal assessment of progression at Stages 1 and 2 requires a meeting involving an Internal Assessor and should be held as an in-person or virtual event. The School may appoint more than one Internal Assessor if appropriate, for example if the research is inter/transdisciplinary in nature. In such instances all Internal Assessors should be actively engaged in all aspects of the formal Progression Review.
The appointment of the Internal Assessor(s) should be initiated within 3 months of registration and the PGR made aware of this, and the appointment should be confirmed at least 3 months before the formal Progression Review begins. It is strongly recommended that where possible the Internal Assessor(s) are involved in the Stage 3 Progression Review for continuity and quality assurance purposes. The Stage 3 Progression Review can be conducted by the supervisory team but should not be conducted by a single supervisor.
For more information on the role, responsibilities and appointment of the Internal Assessor, please consult the following:
Role and responsibilities of the Internal Assessor
Progression Reviews at Stages 1 and 2 should use the core Review elements below, and may include additional methods of assessment deemed necessary by Schools, to assess progress to date against the Stage appropriate published criteria. When including additional elements Schools must pay due regard to PGR and Assessor assessment load.
If progress is not sufficient to meet the necessary outcomes within the period of registered study, the aim must be to meet these, and complete the research and thesis examination within a maximum of three years (for MPhil) or four years from first registration (for PhD, MVM, MD, MVS, and professional doctorate) irrespective of programme duration. This maximum duration can only be changed in individual cases if the PGR holds an award with terms and conditions that vary this maximum period and the School approves the arrangement. Note that some awards may have a maximum duration of less than 4 years.
2.  Timing of formal Progression Review and stages of PGR study
Includes:
for all PGRs; different stages of study; purpose and timing of formal Progression Reviews; 4 year PhD programmes with a substantial taught, training and development or laboratory rotation element in Stage 1; recommended latest timings for Stage 3 Progression Review.
Formal assessment of progression through the Progression Review may take place at a time most appropriate for the PGR and/or be aligned with a School annual process. The Stage of PGR study is defined by their achievement and development but will generally align to year of study.  Schools can make adjustments to local progression timing, arrangements and requirements so long as the minimum elements of progression review are in place and completed by the required deadline for the PGR.
It is however strongly recommended that preparations for the formal Progression Review assessment should begin before the PGR has completed 9 months of each Stage / year of study and that reviews are held around the 9-month period. This is to allow for any supported improvement of progress and re-assessment to be completed within the year of study.
For non-doctoral PGRs (e.g. MPhil), Stage 1 Progression Review will usually align with year 1, and confirms satisfactory progress towards the UNQF level 7 outcomes. Stage 2 Progression Review indicates progress sufficient to allow thesis submission within 6 months. The Stage 2 Progression Review therefore happens at least 6 months before the end of the period of registered study.
For more information about the UNQF, please consult the following:
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
For doctoral PGRs on 3 and 3.5 year programmes:
During their first year of registration, the status of doctoral PGRs as PhD candidates is probationary. Stage 1 Progression Review will usually occur within the first year of study, confirms progress against the published criteria , and is also the point of confirmation of PhD registration status. Stage 2 Progression Review will usually take place in the second year of registered study and confirms sufficient progress to support probable achievement of doctoral outcomes within the next 12-18 months. Stage 3 Progression Review confirms a level of progress and achievement that shows that the PGR should achieve the doctoral outcome within 6 months (see the latest timings for Stage 3 Progression Review below).
For more information about Assessment criteria for Progression Reviews, please consult the following:
Assessment criteria for Progression Reviews
For doctoral PGRs on 4 year programmes:
For 4 year doctoral programmes containing a large component of mandatory elements in the first year of registered study, such as substantial training and development requirements, taught modules, or laboratory / research project rotations, Stage 1 Progression Review may occur at the most appropriate time for the PGR depending on the programme, but must take place before the end of the second year. Recommendations on the registration of such PGRs on the PhD may be made at an earlier stage (e.g. after one year or 18 months), depending on the progress of the research alongside the mandatory taught or training elements of the programme.
For PGRs in doctoral training programmes or centres for doctoral training, where Stage 1 Progression Review is managed through the DTP/CDT.
The DTP/CDT programme is responsible for ensuring the PGR understands the process and timing of the Stage 1 review, and how their work in year 1 enables them to achieve the required outcomes . Thereafter, in Stages 2 and 3, the supervisors and School are primarily responsible for ensuring PGRs are prepared and fully understand the process and requirements of Progression Review.
For more information about Assessment criteria for Progression Reviews, please consult the following:
Assessment criteria for Progression Reviews
Progression Review after this takes place as described for the 3 / 3.5 year programmes.
Progression review - Stages
MPhil
PhD
Normal timing
Purpose
Normal timing
Purpose
Stage 1
Year 1
Confirmation of sufficient progress towards level 7 outcomes, meeting outcome within 12 months
Year 1/Year 2 [depending on length and structure of programme]
Confirmation of sufficient progress and PhD registration
Stage 2
Year 2
Confirmation of sufficient progress for thesis submission within 6 months
Year 2/Year 3 [depending on length and structure of programme]
Confirmation of sufficient progress to meet doctoral outcomes within 12-18 months
Stage 3
Year 3/Year 4
Confirmation of sufficient progress for thesis submission within 6 months
The latest time at which Stage 3 Progression Review (confirmation that doctoral outcomes can be achieved within 6 months) can take place are in the table below.
Programme of study
Recommended latest timing of Stage 3 Progression Review
PhD: 3 years (36 months)
30 months after initial registration, normally 18 months after Stage 1 Progression Review.
PhD: 3 years, 6 months (42 months)
36 months after initial registration, normally 24 months after Stage 1 Progression Review.
PhD: 4 years
42 months after initial registration, normally 30 months after Stage 1 Progression Review.
Integrated PhD
42 months after initial registration, normally 30 months after Stage 1 Progression Review.
1 year + 3 years (MRes/MSc + PhD)
30 months after initial registration, normally 18 months after Stage 1 Progression Review.
PhD: 4 years + 1 year extended training opportunities
42 months after initial registration, normally 30 months after Stage 1 Progression Review.
MPhil (normal expected period of study 2 years)
6 months after Stage 1 Progression Review.
3.  Minimum elements of Stage 1 and 2 Progression Review
Includes:
for all PGRs; for doctoral PGRs undergoing confirmation of registration; 4 year PhD programmes with a substantial taught, training and development or laboratory rotation element in Stage 1
Progression Reviews at Stages 1 and 2 should use the core Review elements below to assess progress to date against the Stage appropriate published criteria, to enable the PGR to demonstrate that they have achieved the required outcomes at each Stage.
For more information about Assessment criteria for Progression Reviews, please consult the following:
Assessment criteria for Progression Reviews
When including any additional assessment methods, Schools must pay due consideration to assessment load and the balance of PGR workload for Progression Review against their ongoing research progress. It should not be expected that PGRs stop research / thesis writing in order to devote time to the Progression Review.
Schools must ensure that the following elements are included in their formal Progression Review process:
For PGRs undergoing Stage 1 and Stage 2 Progression Review:
A formal summative assessment of PGR progress to date. This is assessed against published criteria/outcomes by:
a)
a written report by the PGR on their progress to date and
b)
through questioning at a meeting between the PGR and the Internal Assessor and (if the School wishes, other staff who have not previously been closely associated with the PGR's work).
The meeting should have a clear agenda. It should begin with a reinforcement of what the meeting will cover and include opportunities to discuss progress to date, the PGR’s future research plans, and the extent of progress towards the doctoral outcomes, the wider research environment and its suitability to support the planned research, and the supervision the PGR receives.
Plans for completion and submission of the thesis within the period of registered study, and completion of thesis examination in a maximum of 4 years, bearing in mind that PGRs do not have a dedicated ‘writing up’ period, and thesis writing should be integrated alongside the research.
Independent written assessments from the Internal Assessor and supervisory team* on the PGR’s performance to date. The Internal Assessor’s report should include information on PGR performance, progress, attendance and engagement throughout the period of study. Any problems encountered or required support identified by the PGR in discussion or in their written report should be noted in the Internal Assessor’s report, where appropriate. The report from the supervisory team should include any concerns with PGR progress to date, successes or problems encountered or necessary mitigations required to maintain progress.
Formative feedback on how improvements might be made on both the written report and the meeting from the Internal Assessor. This can be verbal feedback at the end of the meeting.
Confirmation that the required minimum number of supervision sessions has taken place, that the records of supervision meetings are available, and that these record the progress made to date and highlight any problems encountered.
The Internal Assessor should be able to access evidence that the PGR has attended any modules and passed any assessments that form a compulsory part of their research programme.
The content of any report submitted to a PGR’s sponsor, if they have one, should also be considered as part of the review.
In all these processes, the principal supervisor can represent the supervisory team but in doing so is expected to consult as necessary with other team members.
Note that the Progression Reviews should also consider and take into account any significant research and/or personal impacts that have /may have significant disruptive impacts on research progress. Consideration of this should include information about how the PGR has managed to progress their research in light of any impacts, the extent to which they have mitigated these impacts and how they have had to change their research plans, activities, and goals/milestones accordingly.
After the meeting with the PGR, the Internal Assessor and supervisors should share their independent reports with the PGR for their comment and response. If the likely recommendation is for reassessment, or if there is disagreement in outcome, the reports should be shared in a meeting with the Independent Assessor and/or the supervisors so the PGR has support when this is communicated. This can be during the verbal feedback after the meeting.
In light of the meeting, and discussion of the independent reports and the PGR response, the Internal Assessor and the principal supervisor should agree a joint recommendation on the outcome to the Head of School. The agreed joint recommendation will be recorded in the PGR’s record.
4. Elements of Stage 3 Progression Review
Includes:
consideration of progress to thesis submission; minimum elements
The Stage 3 Progression Review should determine whether the PGR is likely to meet the doctoral outcomes within the next 6 months. It should include a detailed consideration of progress, including the progress made with writing the thesis, and a plan to ensure that the thesis is submitted within the period of registered study. If this is thought to be unachievable at Stage 3 Progression Review (for PGRs on 36 or 42 month programmes), plans must be made for degree completion, including thesis examination, within a maximum of 4 years from initial registration.
It is strongly recommended that the Internal Assessor is also involved in the Stage 3 Progression Review for continuity and quality assurance purposes.
In addition to the minimum elements of Stages 1 and 2 Progression Review, Stage 3 Progression Review should include the following elements:
a detailed evaluation of how the work to date shows that the PGR has already or will meet /achieve the doctoral outcomes.
plans for the PGR to achieve any doctoral outcomes that are not yet met, showing how these will be met within 6 months;
detailed information on the progress made on writing the thesis, and plans for its completion (noting that the thesis is expected to be completed within the period of registered study, and a detailed plan for thesis completion and submission).
discussion of any exceptional circumstances, unforeseen problems and mitigations that have been necessary to ensure progression and timely completion
Note that if the required outcomes relating to the generation of empirical novel research contributions are unlikely to be met within 6 months, the PGR is unlikely to be able to progress to thesis submission and examination within 6 months.  In this case, the Internal Assessor and supervisors should consider the recommendation that the PGR does not progress and whether an exceptional extension to the period of registered study is required.
After the meeting with the PGR, the Internal Assessor and supervisors should share their independent reports with the PGR for their comment and response. If the likely recommendation is for reassessment, or if there is disagreement in outcome, the reports should be shared in a meeting with the Independent Assessor and/or the supervisors so the PGR has support when this is communicated. This can be during the verbal feedback after the meeting.
In light of the meeting, and discussion of the independent reports and the PGR response, the Internal Assessor and the principal supervisor should agree a joint recommendation on the outcome to the Head of School. The agreed joint recommendation will be recorded in the PGR’s record.
5. The possible outcomes of formal Progression Review
Includes:
outcomes where assessors agree; recommendations on progression; circumstances and outcomes when progression is not recommended
Outcomes where the Internal Assessor and supervisory teams agree:
1. Progression to the next stage of study is recommended.
In order to make this recommendation there should be records that the PGR has been progressing according to plans throughout the year. Progress must be confirmed as satisfactory in the meeting through assessment against the stage-specific criteria, taking into account discipline / field specific differences in doctoral study and structure. The supervisors and assessors should agree that the PGR will be able to meet the doctoral outcomes in the required time.
Outcomes of approved progression to the next stage of study are:
a) For Stage 1 PhD PGRs, confirmation of their status as PhD candidates.
b) For Stage 1 and 2 progression, re-registration on the same degree in the following academic session.
c) For all stages, provided the PGR agrees, the assessors can recommend a transfer of registration to another, usually higher, degree (e.g. from MPhil to PhD). In this instance, a transfer form must be completed. If a transfer is recommended at Stage 3, and the review did not involve an Internal Assessor, then an interview with the Internal Assessor is required to confirm the transfer to the new degree.
d) For Stage 3 PGRs whose progress is satisfactory but who are likely to submit the thesis after the end of their period of registered study, the recommendation will be that on completion of the period of registered study they enter Thesis pending.
e) For PGRs in Stage 3 who are achieving the necessary progress to meet the doctoral outcomes by the planned date, the recommendation will be maintenance of current status up to the end of their period of registered study.
For recommendations d) and e), the PGR must have met the requirements for the minimum period of registered study, completed the empirical research and not exceeded 4 years of study.
2. Progression is not recommended and progress is required to be reassessed.
For this recommendation there will be information in the supervision records that the PGR and supervisory teams have discussed the reasons for unsatisfactory progress, and that attempts have been made to support the PGR to improve. The progress to date should have been assessed in the meeting with the Internal Assessor against the stage-specific criteria and found to be insufficient, taking into account discipline / field specific differences in doctoral study structure. The Internal Assessor and supervisory teams’ independent reports should agree that the PGR requires additional time and support to be able to demonstrate their ability to progress to the next stage at reassessment. In these cases, supervisory records must be kept, and should be available for the re-assessment.
a) Stage 1 PGRs on a supportive or corrective plan of action remain on probationary status until confirmation of Stage 1 progression.
b) At all Stages PGRs are registered/re-registered for PhD in the following academic session with an agreed plan of supportive or corrective action in place for a limited time.
c) For Stage 3 PGRs who have made insufficient progress in research and writing to allow them to meet the doctoral outcomes within the following 6 months, the assessors may recommend a reassessment after a period of up to 3 months. There should be a plan for supportive corrective action during this time to support the PGR to meet the doctoral outcomes by the end of the period of registered study.
d) For Stage 3 PGRs who have made insufficient progress in research to allow them  to meet the doctoral outcomes and submit the thesis for examination within the following 6 months, the assessors may recommend an exceptional extension to the PGR’s period of registration for up to one further year. Reassessment for ability to progress to thesis  should be done after no more than 6 months. Thesis completion and examination are still expected within the 4 year maximum period.
e) The maximum number of Progression Reviews for a PGR at any stage is limited to 2. If an Exceptional Circumstances claim is submitted and upheld, the Progression Review may be repeated as a First Sit.
3. Progression is not recommended  - suggested change to registration status.
All Stages: With the agreement of the PGR and on recommendation in the joint report, transfer of registration to another degree (e.g. from PhD to MPhil, or MPhil to MRes). In this instance, re-assessment of progress is not required and a transfer form must be completed.
The reasons for a recommendation for reassessment or registration on another degree must be explained to the PGR as soon as possible.
In cases of referral for re-assessment, the PGR must have the opportunity to discuss the decision with the Internal Assessor and the supervisory team. If necessary, the PGR should be referred to the School Postgraduate Student Advisor (SPSA), Senior Tutor or other appropriate welfare support officer. The supervisory team should offer the PGR support in addressing the outcome of the review, and if necessary, in producing their response to the assessment in the reports.
6. Resolution of disagreement on Progression Review recommendations
Includes:
process to be followed to reach resolution on the recommendation for progression; timeline for resolution.
If the independent reports from the supervisory team and the Independent Assessor(s) disagree on the recommended outcome of the Progression Review, the following process should be followed.
The PGR should be referred to the supervisors, SPSA, Senior Tutor or other appropriate welfare support officer for support in addressing the outcome of the review, depending on where disagreement lies, and the required support. They should have the opportunity to discuss the Review with the supervisory team and / or Internal Assessor(s). They should have support in producing their response to the assessment either from the supervisors or from other members of the PGR support team. The PGR should receive the feedback from the review and be given an appropriate time to produce their response.
1. If the Internal Assessor recommends progression but the supervisory team does not.
The independent and joint reports, and the PGR’s response, should be shared with the Head of School or delegate. The Head of School may call a meeting of the Internal Assessor, supervisors and PGR to discuss the case. The Head of School will then make a decision based on the information in the reports and from the discussion as to whether the PGR should progress, or be referred for reassessment.
The Head of School must consider whether delegation of this task to another person, such as an experienced PGR supervisor/assessor, the PGR Director or SPSA is preferable to ensure an independent perspective on the decision.
2. If the supervisory team recommends progression but the Internal Assessor does not.
The supervisory team should set up a meeting for discussion of the proposed outcome to which the Internal Assessor; the PGR should also be invited and have made their response to the independent reports. The group should attempt to resolve the outcome by discussion. If there is information that is relevant to the discussion that was not available to the Internal Assessor in the Progression Review documentation and/or meeting and that might affect the judgement of progress, such as extenuating circumstances, this should be made available in the discussions. If agreement can be reached, then the recommendation will follow the process in Section 5.
If agreement on the outcome cannot be resolved through discussion, the case should be referred to the Head of School as in 1 above.
Such discussions should be held in a timely manner, aiming to reach a resolution and recommended outcome within 1 month of the Progression Review meeting.
7. Requirements for Progression Review re-assessment and outcomes
Includes:
reassessment of progress; support for PGRs
If progress needs to be reassessed at any stage, the PGR must be given detailed information on the goals and requirements for improved performance, an appropriate and defined timeframe in which to meet these, and support in achieving the required improvement. They should also be made aware of the possible outcomes of the reassessment process.
The format for re-assessment will be the same as for the initial Progression Review. The PGR should update their written report, focussing specifically on how they have met the agreed objectives. A plan for maintained progress should also be produced and considered at the re-assessment meeting.
Stage 1 PGRs are re-registered on a continued probationary basis until re-assessment. PGRs at stages 2 and 3 are re-registered/continue to be registered for the PhD until re-assessment.
When a PGR is referred for reassessment, the following information must be provided to the PGR as soon as possible:
Feedback on the performance in all aspects of the Progression Review, including clear detailed guidance on the requirements for improvement, with SMART objectives/goals and/or milestones;
Explicit information on the potential outcomes of re-assessment;
An explicit time/date for the re-assessment of progress, which should give sufficient time for the required progress to be made. Normally this would not be more than 3 months after the original Progression Review. In exceptional circumstances and with the approval of QSC, the time given for improvement for PGRs at stages 1 and 2 may be up to 6 months;
The PGR must receive appropriate academic support and guidance to support them to achieve the required improvements. Academic support is particularly important for PGRs in progressing to Stage 3, to ensure that PGRs get on track to meet the required outcomes, and are prepared for the completion and examination of the thesis;
If necessary and appropriate, the PGR should be referred for support outside the supervisory team, e.g. welfare or disability support teams.
8. Outcomes of Progression Review re-assessment
Includes:
the possible outcomes from re-assessment following satisfactory progress; outcomes on unsatisfactory progress; required evidence of progress.
If the Internal Assessor and the supervisors disagree on the recommendation after  reassessment, they should follow the process for resolution. This should include the Head of School irrespective of where the disagreement in recommendation lies.
The Head of School may delegate this task to an appropriate member of the PGR support team such as the PGR Director or SPSA.
If performance in the Progression Review re-assessment meets the stated criteria, and the required improvement has been made as agreed by the PGR and assessors, the recommendation by the School to the University should be that:
a) For Stage 1 doctoral PGRs, confirmation of their status as doctoral candidates.
b) For Stages 1 and 2 progression, re-registration on the same degree in the following academic session.
c) For Stage 3 PGRs whose progress is satisfactory but who are likely to submit the thesis after the end of their period of registered study, the recommendation will be that on completion of the period of registered study they enter Thesis pending.
d) For Stage 3 PGRs who are on track to achieve the necessary progress to meet the doctoral outcomes by the planned date, and move to thesis submission, the recommendation would be maintenance of current status up to the end of their period of registered study at which point they would, if necessary, enter Thesis pending until thesis submission.
For recommendations c) and d), the PGR must have met the requirements for the minimum period of registered study, completed the research and have not exceeded 4 years of study. A recommendation for registration for a higher degree cannot be made as a result of progression re-assessment.
If performance in the re-assessment does not meet the criteria and the required progress / improvement has not been achieved as agreed by the supervisory team and Internal Assessor, the recommendation by the School to the University should be that, for all PGRs at all stages
Either
a) the PGR is required to re-register on another, usually lower degree (e.g. PhD to MPhil, MPhil to MRes).
Or
b) the PGR’s registration is terminated.
Termination of registration can only be recommended when supported by evidence that the PGR has received written warnings on lack of progress during the period of study, and the period of supported improvement.
In these cases, all supervisory records and Progression Review paper work must be submitted to QSC for approval.
9. Considerations of Covid-19 or other major impacts
Where the recommendations to extend the PGR's registration status relate to research or personal impacts resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic, the PGR can confirm the need for an extension to the 4 year maximum period, by either following the extension to the registered period of study, or the extension to Thesis pending procedure, depending on whether further research is deemed necessary or not.
Other significant impacts on PGR progression, either personal or research-related, such as major disruption in access to facilities, should also be taken into account in Progression Review. When circumstances are out of the PGRs control, these should be considered fairly, with respect and consideration for the impact on the PGR.
Forms and documentation
Includes:
flowchart for progression review and submission; progression review forms; request to register for an additional period of study; request to transfer student
UK campus only
School PGR Progression Review Form
Request to transfer studies (research degree)
Registration during thesis pending period form
Request to register a research student for an additional period of study
*
* this includes a section for Visa and Immigration team approval
UNM campus only
School PGR Progression Review Form
Request to transfer studies
Request to register a research student for an additional period of study
UNNC campus only
School PGR Progression Review Form (Probationary PhD students)
School PGR Progression Review Form (excluding Probationary PhD students)
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
02 July 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-alt-formats-thesis-submission.aspx
Header: Alternative formats of thesis submission
Intro: This page provides guidance about alternative formats of thesis submission. Its content is primarily directed at staff and students involved in the programmes indicated, across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Alternative formats of thesis submission - The University of NottinghamAlternative formats of thesis submission
This page provides guidance about alternative formats of thesis submission. Its content is primarily directed at staff and students involved in the programmes indicated, across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Relationship with existing doctoral programmes and regulations
The regulations for the degrees listed below are the same as those which govern the PhD allowing for different submission formats:
Music
Creative Writing
Drama and Performance Practice as Research
Translation Studies
Alternative formats for Music
1.
In the case of MPhil/PhD students in Musical Composition, assessment is by submission of a portfolio of conventionally-notated compositions - in varying genres and for varying forces - initiated and completed during the period of study. These works will be developed through regular individual consultations with the supervisor. One of the compositions should be substantial and extended in length. The portfolio must be accompanied by a written commentary illuminating the composer’s methodology, aesthetic and communicative intentions, and their detailed evaluation of the portfolio when placed alongside contemporaneous works from other composers living both in this country and abroad. The commentary must also include precise analyses of selected aspects of the submitted compositions and must demonstrate how the candidate’s development of their compositional skills can be seen within the portfolio.
2.
For submissions at MPhil level, the composition portfolio should amount to 40 minutes of music with a commentary of 12,000 words. The compositions should display originality of imagination and critical awareness of current issues, a high level of creative ability, a comprehensive understanding of techniques utilising instrumental and/or vocal and/or electro-acoustic resources, a systematic understanding of structural control and coherence and, where appropriate, impeccable skill and accuracy with regard to notation and presentation (whether calligraphic or computer-processed). Submitted compositions should be worthy of performance within a professional environment.
For submissions at PhD level, the composition portfolio should amount to 60 minutes of music with a commentary of 20,000 words. The compositions should display an original and imaginative contribution to contemporary music, an advanced level of creative ability, technical mastery in usage of instrumental and/or vocal and/or electro-acoustic resources, accomplished structural control and coherence and, where appropriate, impeccable skill and accuracy with regard to notation and presentation (whether calligraphic or computer-processed). Submitted compositions should be worthy of a professional standard of performance.
Alternative formats for Creative Writing
1.
In the case of MPhil/PhD students in Creative Writing assessment is by submission of an extended and original piece of creative work and a shorter critical evaluation in which this creative work and its contexts, are discussed and analysed. The creative element could be a novel, a manuscript of poems, a collection of short stories, a play, or another form of creative output, as required by the project.
2.
For submission at MPhil level the word length of the creative element section will normally be 30,000 - 40,000 words (or equivalent, depending on genre or output as agreed with thesis supervisor), with a critical component of 10,000-20,000 words. The MPhil thesis should not normally exceed 60,000 words.
For submission at PhD level the word length of the creative element section will normally be 50,000 - 70,000 words (or equivalent, depending on genre or output as agreed with the supervisor). The critical component will involve a self-reflective and evaluative analysis about some aspect of the creative or research process and will normally be 15,000-30,000 words in length. This may involve any of the currently debated topics in English or Theatre Studies as they relate to the candidate's creative work: thematic or generic preoccupations, wider literary, theoretical, or poetic contexts, and so on. The PhD thesis should not normally exceed 100,000 words.
Alternative formats for Drama and Performance Practice as Research
1.
In the case of Drama and Performance MPhils/PhDs involving an element of practice as research assessment the thesis submission may include a performance work or works and a critical evaluation in which this performance practice is discussed and analysed. The form of the performance work will be negotiated with and approved by the supervisors but may be pilot/exploratory practice and/or a finished performance as required by the project.
2.
Taking the practice element into account, for submission at MPhil level the written component should not normally exceed 40,000 words and at PhD level should not normally exceed 60,000 words.
Alternative formats for Translation Studies
In the case of MPhil/PhD students in Translation Studies, assessment may be either through submission of a thesis (which should be not more than 100,000 words for PhD or 60,000 words for MPhil), or through a combined extended translation and thesis option. The extended translation may be of material belonging to any genre, subject to prior approval. The accompanying thesis must engage with, and contribute to the development of, translation theory.
1.
For submission at MPhil level, students opting for the translation and thesis option should submit an extended translation of 10,000 - 20,000 words. The translation should be of publishable or near-publishable standard. The translation should be accompanied by a thesis of 20,000 - 40,000 words. The total word-count for thesis plus translation together must be 40,000 - 60,000 words.
2.
For submission at PhD level, students opting for the translation + thesis option should submit an extended translation of 20,000 - 40,000 words. The translation should be of publishable standard. The translation should be accompanied by a thesis of 45,000 - 80,000 words. The total word-count for thesis plus translation together must be 80,000 – 100,000 words.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
31 May 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/registration-and-attendance/regs-governing-attendance-and-engagement-unnc-unm.aspx
Header: Regulations governing attendance and engagement - UNNC, UNM
Intro: This page contains the University's regulations in relation to student attendance and engagement. Its contents are applicable to staff and students at the China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Regulations governing attendance and engagement - UNNC, UNM - The University of NottinghamRegulations governing attendance and engagement - UNNC, UNM
This page contains the University's regulations in relation to student attendance and engagement. Its contents are applicable to staff and students at the China and Malaysia campuses.Please note that students in the UK on a Student Route visa are also affected by the University's Policy on Immigration Sponsorship. Where academic policies and immigration policies seem to be contradictory, immigration policies will take precedence. For more information, please consult the following:
Immigration sponsorship
Overview
Includes:
student responsibilities; link to the Policy on circumstances affecting students ability to study and complete assessments; voluntary interruption of study; school responsibilities; withdrawal on health and safety grounds; guidance for research students
1.1
Students must organise their residential and other arrangements to facilitate attendance and engagement as required by their programme.
1.2
The University monitors the attendance of its students and where required to will report non-attendance to the appropriate authorities.
1.3
Students must attend all teaching activities necessary for the pursuit of their studies, undertake all associated assessments and attend meetings and other activities as required by their school or the University. The Policy on Circumstances Affecting Students' Ability to Study and Complete Assessments details the processes that students and schools should follow where a student’s ability to study or take assessments is in any way affected. Where students wish to interrupt their study, they should follow the University's procedure on voluntary interruption of study. Retrospective interruption of study is not permitted. For more information, please consult the following:
Policy on circumstances affecting students ability to study and complete assessments
Voluntary interruption of study
1.4
It is the responsibility of the school to ensure by suitable means (normally the course handbook) that students are aware of the requirements.
1.5
Schools may have formal means for recording attendance and engagement, but there is no requirement that a systematic register is taken in order to follow this procedure.
1.6
The intention of this procedure is to ensure that students are engaging appropriately with the University and to provide a framework for managing non-engagement.
1.7
In the case of all students where responsibility is shared between schools, the owning school should ensure that any partner schools are informed of issues and the partner schools should involve the owning school in any processes relating to this policy.
1.8
The University has a policy regarding students required to withdraw temporarily or permanently on grounds of health and safety and it may be appropriate to manage non-attendance through that procedure rather than through these regulations. For more information, please consult the following:
Students required to withdraw on grounds of health and safety
1.9
Annual leave for research students should be in accordance with the relevant guidance and where students do not comply with this they may be managed under this policy.
Responsibilities of the student (PGR)
Management of non-engagement
Includes:
taught course students - non-engagement with one or more modules; research students - non-attendance at supervision; all students -  total absence
Taught course students: non-engagement with one or more modules
This procedure applies where a student, in the opinion of their School, is not engaging with all activities necessary for the pursuit of their studies or is not submitting required formative assessments, but is attending some activities. Where students are attending no activities, the guidelines in the All students - total absence box applies.
Where a student has notified current or intended absence
2.1.1
A student who knows that they will be absent from the University for any period of time should make this known to their School, Division or Department in order that appropriate discussions can take place.
2.1.2
A student whose absence is unplanned should inform their School, Division or Department immediately that they are absent in order that appropriate discussions can take place.
2.1.3
The School and student should discuss how long the likely absence will be and what effect this may have on the student’s ability to undertake their programme satisfactorily.  When the absence is with good cause, the School will where possible be flexible in responding to the needs of individual students.
2.1.4
If the absence is for a period of more than two weeks or any period considered to be significant by the School and notified to students (normally in the Course Handbook), the School may require the student to suspend their studies and return at a specified time in the future that will enable the student to resume the programme appropriately. In making the decision the School should take into account all the circumstances of the individual, including health and safety aspects, and the requirements of the programme and may specify that on their return a student will be required to take alternative modules to those originally taken.
2.1.5
At any point in this process the School may seek advice and guidance from the Head of Student Services or a member of the University Health Service, including advice on personal matters that the student has given consent for them to discuss, and advice on referrals to University services. Advice is also available from the Students’ Union.
2.1.6
Where the School wishes the student to suspend and the student does not wish to voluntarily interrupt their study the recommendation to suspend should be forwarded by the School to the Head of Student Administration for consideration on behalf of the Quality and Standards Committee (QSC).  If the School’s recommendation is ratified the student will be required to suspend.
Where a student has not notified absence
2.1.7
If a student is not attending the requisite timetabled sessions and/or not undertaking the requisite formative assessments, the module convenor should inform the student's Head of School or a member of that School's staff with delegated responsibility. The School should ascertain the extent of non-engagement by contacting all relevant module convenors, and then take appropriate steps, normally including interviewing the student, to ascertain the reason for non-engagement. If the School does not receive a satisfactory explanation for absence or non-completion of work, the School should send a written warning to the student, stating the course of action (described in 2.1.8 below) that will occur if the situation does not improve sufficiently.
2.1.8
The School should ask the module convenor(s) to report on whether the warning has the desired effect. If non-engagement continues, the School may either:
(a)
inform the student that a mark of 0% has been awarded for all remaining assessments (including examinations) on the module(s) affected. Where this action leads to the module(s) being failed and the student subsequently being unable to progress under the relevant regulations, the School can decide that the module be reassessed the following session and specify whether the student must be in attendance, rather than arranging a reassessment for the student in August/September.
or
(b)
follow the procedure in paragraphs 2.1.4 and 2.1.6 (above), resulting in the suspension of the student’s registration for the remainder of the session.
Research students: non-attendance at supervision and other activities
This section of the procedure applies when the non-attendance is not covered by evidence of extenuating circumstances and where:
The student is missing or cancelling supervision meetings to the extent that, if continued, it is unlikely that the minimum number of supervision will take place in the session; or
The student is not attending satisfactorily such other activities (for example, laboratory sessions) deemed by the supervisor to be requisite to the student's research studies; or
The student is deemed by the supervisor not to be engaging appropriately with their research.
Where the student is not engaging at all, the procedure in the All students - total absence section (below) should be followed.
2.2.1
The supervisor should inform the student's Head of School or a member of that School's staff with delegated responsibility. The School should take appropriate steps, normally including interviewing the student, to ascertain the reason for non-engagement. If the School does not receive a satisfactory explanation, the School should send a written warning to the student that the non-engagement will feature in the student's progression review and may influence the outcome of the review, possibly with the result that the student's programme will be terminated. In the case of continued inadequate engagement following a warning, the School may also consider bringing forward the progression review.
If this action is taken, the expectation would be that the normal progression review cycle is also maintained, but if the extra review is held within three months of the normally expected date the School may decide not to hold another review until the following year.
All students - total absence
2.3.1
If reports to the School indicate that a student is not attending any modules, supervision or other required activities such as practice based placements and the student provides no explanation for this non-attendance when invited to do so, the matter should be referred to the Student Service Centre (or its equivalent on University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM) or University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC)). The Student Service Centre will write to the student stating that they will be deemed to have withdrawn from the University unless a reply to the contrary is received within a specified time period. If a student is deemed to have withdrawn their registration as a student will be discontinued in accordance with the Regulations Governing Registration.
For more information about these regulations, please consult the following page:
Regulations governing registration
2.3.2
Where a student does provide either the School or the Student Service Centre with an explanation for their absence, the School must determine whether the explanation provides good cause for the absence. If the explanation offered does not establish good cause, the student should be dealt with under the procedure contained in 2.1.7 and 2.1.8 (in the Taught course students: non-engagement with one or more modules box) above in respect of all modules, or under 2.2.1 (in the Research students: non-attendance at supervision and other activities box) above if a research student.
2.3.3
If a student has zero attendance and the School has no knowledge at all as to the student's whereabouts the School should contact the Student Service Centre (or its equivalent on UNM or UNNC) and the emergency contact protocol will be applied.
For more information about the emergency contact protocol, please consult the following:
Emergency contact protocol
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
21 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-students-studying-in-outside-organisations.aspx
Header: Postgraduate researchers studying away/in outside organisations
Intro: This page provides information for postgraduate researchers who wish to apply to conduct their research studies away from the University of Nottingham. Its content is relevant to staff and postgraduate researchers across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Postgraduate researchers studying away/in outside organisations - The University of NottinghamPostgraduate researchers studying away/in outside organisations
This page provides information for postgraduate researchers who wish to apply to conduct their research studies away from the University of Nottingham. Its content is relevant to staff and postgraduate researchers across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1. Introduction
The research study of any postgraduate researcher may in appropriate cases take place away from Nottingham. This may be another higher education institution, a non-academic collaborating organisation, or another location where the candidate will continue to progress their research work or thesis.
This includes where the candidate will be progressing their research or thesis at:
A collaborating organisation that does not form a part of the University of Nottingham
An overseas location for fieldwork or similar purposes
A location from which it is not possible to readily commute to a University of Nottingham campus
A home or other overseas location
Such arrangements may apply equally to full-time and part-time postgraduate researchers and may cover all or part of the total period of directed study including thesis pending in the case of UNUK and UNM registered students on a visa.
Postgraduate researchers wishing to study for more than 4 weeks away from a University of Nottingham campus must make a request to the University about the arrangements for this, by completing the study away form:
Study away from the University form
Study away from the University form
Study away from the University form
PGR students must have completed registration and commenced their doctorate before an application for study away from the university can be made. PGRs cannot commence their study away from the University except in the case of PGRs on collaborative arrangements where the formal agreement specifies this.
Completion of the study away notification form is not required for postgraduate researchers who are part of a partnership agreement, exchange or mobility scheme, or any other formalised external study.
2. Application of regulations
All postgraduate researchers who study for part or all of their research degree away from Nottingham are subject to the normal regulations and procedures covering research students. The University of Nottingham supervisors are responsible for ensuring that the researcher complies with all programme requirements, such as, but not limited to supervisions and Monitoring and Progression Reviews whilst they are studying away. In addition, the following special considerations should be incorporated into the management of the student/programme.
3. Collaborative arrangements
Includes:
Memorandum of Agreement; local supervision at collaborating institutions; availability of facilities at collaborating institutions; level of support at collaborating institutions
Many collaborative arrangements will arise from a formal Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) either at School or institutional level with another institution.
In such cases the MOA should outline the supervisory arrangements and programmes of study for the candidates involved in the collaborative agreement, and may include special arrangements for examination.
In other cases the collaboration will be between individual members of academic staff and in such cases the supervisory arrangements and programme of study should be considered on an individual basis.
All candidates who are accepted for admission to a research degree which will require periods of time to be spent away from the University at a collaborating institution must be informed of their outline programme of study and any supervisory arrangements at the time the offer of admission is made.
3.1 Local supervision at the collaborating institution
Where the postgraduate researcher is studying at a collaborating organisation, they will in addition to their University of Nottingham supervisors also usually have a local supervisor in the organisation in which they will be working.  The local supervisor must have an appropriate level of understanding of the academic area of the candidate’s topic of research. The local supervisor would normally be expected to be a postdoctoral member of staff, or of equivalent status, at the outside organisation concerned and may in some instances be an Honorary Professor or Honorary Lecturer of the University of Nottingham.
The School must notify Registry and Academic Affairs of the names and qualifications of any local supervisors and the supervision arrangements that have been put in place.
3.2 Availability of facilities at collaborating institutions
In accepting or permitting study away from the University at collaborating institutions for extended periods, it is the responsibility of the Head of School to ensure that the essential facilities, including laboratory and library facilities, at the collaborating organisation are suitable and will allow the candidate to conduct their research at a satisfactory level. In addition, the Head of School should ensure that, as far as can reasonably be foreseen, the facilities and resources will continue to be available for the duration of the postgraduate researcher’s period of registered study.
3.3 Level of support at collaborating institutions and external organisations
In all cases the Head of School should ensure that the arrangements for study and supervision at the external institution/organisation provide an appropriate level of support and reflect the ethos of the University's quality assurance framework.
Where practice varies between the University and another institution, the School should ensure that the support provided is at least equivalent to that defined in the Quality Manual, although the detail may vary.
Postgraduate researchers should be made aware of the individual arrangements that apply to them and where the precise Quality Manual arrangements will not apply.
4. Field or archive-based study away from the University
Where the postgraduate researcher is applying to study away in order to conduct fieldwork or archival research, this must comply with the University Health and Safety Travel and Off-site Working (including fieldwork) policy and guidance. For more information please consult the following page:
Travel and off-site working (including fieldwork) policy
5. Other circumstances in which study away may be permitted
5.1 For postgraduate researchers registered in the UK
Postgraduate researchers registered in the UK may be permitted to study away from the University including from either a UK location distant from Nottingham (from which it is not possible to readily commute to a University of Nottingham campus), or an overseas location when they have no current requirement for physical access to on-campus research facilities. In such circumstances the Head of School/Director of PGR Study should be assured that suitable remote supervisory and other arrangements are in place to enable the candidate’s research to progress and enable their engagement in relevant training and research activities.  In such cases the fact that study was being undertaken away from the University cannot later be given as the reason for lack of progress or for the candidate’s inability to engage with or attend any mandatory course requirements.
Where a candidate is following a programme under a formal Collaborative Arrangement agreement study away will only be possible if specifically stated in the Memorandum of Agreement.
International postgraduate researchers on a visa should seek advice from the visa and immigration team before making an application under these circumstances.
5.2 For postgraduate researchers registered in UNNC and UNM
Postgraduate researchers registered at UNNC and UNM may be permitted to study away from the University when they have no requirement for physical access to on-campus research facilities. Postgraduate researchers should seek advice from their campus Graduate School and Visa and Immigration Team before making an application.
In such circumstances the Head of School/Director of PGR Study should be assured that suitable remote supervisory and other arrangements are in place to enable the candidate’s research to progress and enable their engagement in relevant training and research activities.  In such cases the fact that study was being undertaken away from the University cannot later be given as the reason for lack of progress or for the candidate’s inability to engage with or attend any mandatory course requirements.
6. Consideration of training needs and requirements
It is the responsibility of the School or Doctoral Training Programme, in conjunction with supervisors, to identify the training needs of individual postgraduate researchers, to ensure needs are met and to determine the means by which they are met. How completion of any mandatory training requirements will be met must be considered as part of any application to study away.
Where possible research training should be undertaken at the University of Nottingham. However, some training may be more appropriately provided at a collaborating institution or external organisation.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
20 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/legacy-exceptional-regulations-covid-19-1920.aspx
Header: Exceptional regulations: Covid-19 - 2019/20 to 2020/21
Intro: This page contains the exceptional regulations that were developed in response to the coronavirus pandemic. Its contents are only relevant to staff and students with affected outcomes during academic years 2019/20 and 2020/21.
Content:
Exceptional regulations: Covid-19 - 2019/20 to 2020/21 - The University of NottinghamExceptional regulations: Covid-19 - 2019/20 to 2020/21
This page contains the exceptional regulations that were developed in response to the coronavirus pandemic. Its contents are only relevant to staff and students with affected outcomes during academic years 2019/20 and 2020/21.During academic year 2019/20, the University introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. These were campus-specific and meant to be read in conjunction with any pre-existing content within the Quality Manual.
From the beginning of academic year 2021/22, the active application of all Covid-19 exceptional regulations across all three campuses has now ceased, with the exception of those which cover extenuating circumstances at the University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM), and those concerning admissions to the University of Nottingham UK (UNUK).
Please note, however, that any outcomes from the application of the exceptional regulations during the 2019/20 and 2020/21 academic years will continue to be honoured and used in all future decisions regarding those affected.
For more information about the exceptional regulations that remain in effect at UNM and UNUK, please consult the following:
Exceptional regulations University of Nottingham Malaysia
(current)
Exceptional regulations - University of Nottingham UK (UNUK)
(current)
For more information about the exceptional regulations and affected content during academic years 2019/20 and 2020/21, please consult the pages listed below.
Pages within this section
Exceptional regulations - University of Nottingham UK (UNUK) - 2019/20 to 2020/21
Exceptional regulations - University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC) - 2019/20 to 2020/21
Exceptional regulations - University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM) - 2019/20 to 2020/21
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
12 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/prog-and-mod-design-and-approval/programmes.aspx
Header: Programmes
Intro: This section contains the Quality Manual's guidance on programmes. These pages are primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Programmes - The University of NottinghamProgrammes
This section contains the Quality Manual's guidance on programmes. These pages are primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Pages within this section
Programme design, development and approval
New Programme by Change
External advice in programme approval
Programme specification guidance
Changes to programme and module specifications
Closing or suspending a programme
Qualification types and structures
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
05 August 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/prog-and-mod-design-and-approval/modules.aspx
Header: Modules
Intro: This section contains the Quality Manual's guidance about modules. These pages are primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Modules - The University of NottinghamModules
This section contains the Quality Manual's guidance about modules. These pages are primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Pages within this section
Module design and approval
Modules specification guidance
Changes to programme and module specifications
For staff wishing to close a module, please contact:
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
05 August 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/prog-and-mod-design-and-approval/annual-review-of-curriculum.aspx
Header: Annual review of curriculum
Intro: This page provides guidance on when and how  updates are made to programme and module specifications. Its content is primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Annual review of curriculum - The University of NottinghamAnnual review of curriculum
This page provides guidance on when and how  updates are made to programme and module specifications. Its content is primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1.0 Purpose
This page outlines when and how changes to curriculum (for programme and module specifications) can be made. This includes approval for changes to micro-credential programmes offered by UoNO
Note, deadlines and processes vary by campus due to different regulatory environments.
2.0 Key principles
2.1 Principles of curriculum review
It is good practice for Schools to review their curriculum (that is, programme and module specification information and curriculum maps) on an annual basis. For example, this may follow local annual monitoring or other teaching review procedures.
It is also necessary for Schools to annually check the accuracy of their published curriculum information, which includes the Online Course Catalogue and prospectus. Prospective students need to be able to rely on the published information in the Online Prospectus to make decisions about what and where to study. Also, the experience of students on a particular programme and/or module should reflect the curriculum information in the Online Course Catalogue.
The annual curriculum review is different to annual monitoring, although the same source datasets are likely to be used for both. For example, External Examiner reports, student and staff feedback. For more information about annual monitoring please see here:
Annual monitoring
These curriculum reviews may lead to a need to make changes to that curriculum, which should be approved by School and Faculty following the relevant local processes.  The curriculum review and School/Faculty approval can occur at suitable times agreed locally and in advance of the deadlines for submission of curriculum changes.  In the UK, there will be different implementation schedules for material curriculum changes compared to changes which are not material.
During the annual review, schools must consider whether maintaining the non-compensatable status of a module is still essential.  This assessment should consider if a non-compensated pass is required for future study (serving as a pre-requisite for a subsequent compulsory module), achieving the programme’s learning outcomes, or meeting accreditation requirements
It is important that the quality manual regulations in relation to new programmes and new modules are considered.  Any changes to existing programmes and modules should comply with the new programme and module regulations (unless an exceptional case has been approved by the Quality and Standards Committee).
Schools must consider the impact of any planned curriculum change on all stakeholders, which may include prospective students, current students, other programmes of study in the School, other Schools, partnerships and the China and Malaysia campuses. In the UK, consultation with students, including prospective students, may be necessary to ensure adherence to Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) guidelines.
2.2 Implementing curriculum changes
To implement the School/Faculty approved curriculum changes, it is necessary for those changes to be amended centrally. The curriculum record is held in the Student Record Systems and consists of Programme and Module Specifications and curriculum maps.  This is also the lead source for prospectus information.  Registry and Academic Affairs (RAA) in the UK or local Academic Services Unit (ASU) at UNNC or Student Registry Office (SRO) at UNM are responsible for maintaining the formal, approved record of curriculum.
Deadlines for submission of curriculum changes vary slightly across the three campuses and are circulated to schools in the respective campuses ahead of the deadlines detailed below.
In UNM/UNNC, there is one annual opportunity to update curriculum, managed by SRO and ASU respectively. Information is cascaded locally regarding how to request those changes.  These changes (for all necessary changes) are usually made in January/February prior to the start of the academic year of implementation.
In the UK, curriculum changes are submitted at two time points depending on whether that information is “material” or not. Information is cascaded locally regarding how to request those changes. Subsequent change to material and non-material information in the UK is not normally permitted unless in exceptional and unforeseen circumstances (see late change).
Changes for material items must be submitted in line with the deadlines ahead of the UG/PGT Prospectus publication. Typically, Schools will be asked to do this by November/December annually for UG programmes and March-May for PGT programmes (e.g. November 2024 for September 2026 UG start).
Changes for non-material items must be submitted according to the annual curriculum review process and timeline. Typically, Schools will be asked to do this by November annually for all programmes (e.g. November 2025 for September 2026).
Material information includes (but is not limited to):
Which modules are core modules,
programme title,
location of study,
duration of study,
external accreditation,
award type,
assessment at programme level,
delivery of teaching at programme level.
Please see
Appendix 1
of the University of
University of Nottingham's Consumer Protection Policy
which provides a full list of information which is considered “material”.
Please note, UK prospectus publication dates are shown in the table below:
UK Prospectus Publishing dates for UG and PGT programmes
Undergraduate
1 March in the calendar year before students commence the course (e.g. 1 March 2025 for 26/27 entry with changes to prospectus information being completed by 1 December 2024)
Postgraduate Taught
1 July in the calendar year before students commence the course (e.g. 1 July 2025 for 26/27 entry with changes to prospectus information being completed by 1 April 2025)
2.3 Late changes to curriculum
It is expected that once the prospectus and Online Course Catalogue are published, no further changes to curriculum information will be made unless essential. Every effort should be made to submit changes to curriculum within the relevant process timeframes. It is however accepted that there may occasionally be a need to make further changes to the curriculum for essential and/or unforeseen reasons after the relevant process deadlines.
Changing material information at any point following the prospectus publication will only be permitted in exceptional circumstances, which might include responding to PSRB, employer or accreditation changes/requirements, or where the change clearly benefits or enhances the student experience.
Local School/Faculty approvals must first be obtained.  Then, RAA in UNUK or local academic services unit in UNM/UNNC will consider the change, consulting with other departments for advice as necessary (e.g., Legal Services, Governance and Marketing), and then make a recommendation to the relevant AFPVC (or delegate) who will accept or reject the request.
Prospective students, specifically applicants and offer holders, and students where impacted must be informed in writing of any changes to material information that has been published in the Online Prospectus or Online Curriculum Catalogue. In some circumstances consultation may be required.
All communications to prospective students regarding changes to material information will be managed by Admissions and Marketing in consultation with the School. All current student communications regarding material changes will be managed by the School/Faculty.  All communications are drafted in consultation with RAA and the School and, where appropriate, the Legal team.
2.4 Free speech
When developing a new programme, appropriate regard must be given to the importance of promoting free speech.
Please consult the following for further information about the Freedom of Speech Act:
The UUK document ‘How can Universities prepare for the Higher Education (Freedom of Speech) Act?
Office for Students guidance on free speech.
2.5 Academic freedom
In relation to programme and module development, approval, and delivery, it should be noted that academics would not be prohibited from developing or delivering a programme or module on the ground that it involves giving serious consideration to ‘controversial or unpopular opinions’. This is not a reason that the programme would be approved, rather it is not a reason it could be declined. For instance, there will remain business or logistical reasons to not grant approval to a programme or module.
3.0 Related regulations, policy and procedures
For more information about changes to Curriculum:
Changes to programme and module specifications
For more information about Consumer Protection Policy (includes list of material information in Appendix 1):
University of Nottingham's Consumer Protection Policy
For more information about UK curriculum change and deadlines, including information about how to submit late change requests in the UK:
Curriculum Approvals and Advisory Team (CAAT) SharePoint (internal UK only)
To view the published curriculum:
Online Course Catalogue
New/revised curriculum maps are required with all programme specification changes.  A template for a curriculum map can be found here:
Curriculum map
For more information about any aspect of curriculum change, please email:
ss-curriculumadvice@nottingham.ac.uk
4.0 Version control table
Version control table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Changes made to reflect the different stages of process for largely CMA reasons.  Also reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework
QSC
August 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
20 September 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/prog-and-mod-design-and-approval/info-about-the-provision-of-he.aspx
Header: Information about the provision of Higher Education
Intro: This page sets out the information that must be provided to current and prospective students by Schools. Its contents are primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses, as well as to prospective students.
Content:
Information about the provision of Higher Education - The University of NottinghamInformation about the provision of Higher Education
This page sets out the information that must be provided to current and prospective students by Schools. Its contents are primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses, as well as to prospective students.1.0 Purpose
These guidelines have been drafted to comply with the requirements of Principle 7 of the UK Quality Code for Higher Education ‘Designing, developing, approving and modifying programmes’ and the expectation that higher education providers produce information for their intended audiences about the learning opportunities they offer that is fit for purpose, accessible and trustworthy.
2.0 Scope
These contents are relevant to staff, and may also be of interest to current or prospective students, across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
3.0 Key principles
3.1 Information for prospective students
The University undertakes to provide appropriate and sufficient information to prospective students to enable them to select their programme of study, and to know what will be expected of them when they register to study at the University.
This information is available through a variety of routes, including open days, virtual open days or offer holder events, the prospectus, the University’s web pages, videos and social media channels. Guidance and advice is available from staff in schools, the Admissions Office and staff in the Student Recruitment Team’s Enquiry Centre to assist prospective students through the applications process.
In addition, information is available about the University’s teaching and learning facilities, student life at Nottingham, support services, opportunities for exchanges and study abroad, as well as information about employability of graduates as part of the requirement to provide course information through the Key Information Set.
3.2 Information for current students
The University has agreed that there must be a minimum level of information which must be provided for undergraduate and postgraduate students about their chosen programme of study. Additionally, students must know at the start of their course an overview of how their courses will be taught and assessed.
The following comprises information which School and teaching groups must supply and some suggestions for layout and style. The information which is supplied to students about their course must be accurate. It is reasonable for the more detailed information to follow after the start of the academic year, particually if students know when that information will be provided.
Information must be supplied about the following:
3.2.1 Course information
A description of what a modular course comprises, definitions of terms – for example, what is a module, what is compensation.
Full details of the course structure and philosophy – for example, how the course progresses, the main themes running through the course, the aims.
Specific skills that may be required during the course – for example, essay writing, giving presentations, basic computing skills, and when they will be required.
Policy on possible module choices within and outside the home School or teaching group.
3.2.2 Assessment information
The purpose, methods and schedule of assessment tasks both during and at the end of a module or programme of study.
For each module, the format of the assessment(s), including, for written examinations, whether it is essay questions or multiple choice questions (MCQs).
The criteria for assessment including, where appropriate, descriptors of expected standards of student attainment; what is expected in order to pass or to gain a particular grade or classification.
Which elements will – and which will not – count towards interim or final assessment and with what weighting or exemption procedures.
The marking and grading conventions that will be used.
The consequences of assessment, such as decisions about progression to the next level, final awards and the right of appeal
Plagiarism – the definition and the penalties (as laid out in the Regulations Governing Suspected Academic Misconduct), including examples of acceptable referencing techniques.
How and when assessment judgements are published.
Any opportunities for re-assessment.
Policy on the late submission of work.
3.2.3 Other
The minimum standards expected of both staff and students – for example, the dates for handing in essays, the dates by which marked work will be returned to students by staff.
Channels of communication – that is, how students make their views known, how they receive feedback on their views (for example, Student Staff Fora (SSFs)).
Role of tutor, giving definitions of academic, personal and year tutor as appropriate, and what sort of queries each deals with.
Times when tutors are available and the policy on availability.
Purchase of books – recommended texts, price, when they will be required during the programme.
Week-by-week course details – that is, what will be taught in each week of the programme.
When to start applying for jobs, postgraduate opportunities and who to approach as referees.
Information about administrative office hours.
3.2.4 Format for information
Booklets are preferable to loose sheets.
Style should be `user-friendly' – that is, an explanation should be provided for technical terms where appropriate.
English should be used, blocks of text could be broken up by putting important points or ideas in boxes.
Booklets specific to the year of the student's course are useful since they ensure that information is imparted at the point in the programme when the students need to know it, rather than overloading students with extraneous information at the start of the programme. A general introductory booklet (supplemented by specific year booklets) is the best approach.
3.2.5 Plagiarism
Each School or department should have an appropriate mechanism in place for recording that a student has read and understood the guidelines on plagiarism, and that their work falls within those guidelines.
3.3 Information for students on completion of studies
Students are entitled to receive a full record of their academic achievements when they leave their programme of study. Degrees and diplomas are conferred at a degree ceremony. If a graduand is unable to attend the ceremony the degree will be conferred in absentia and certificates will be sent six to eight weeks after the ceremonies have finished. Students graduating from 2006 onwards will also receive a diploma supplement at the same time as they receive their degree certificate.
Throughout the period of study, students are able to request transcripts of their marks and to see information about their programmes, including modules and marks, by way of the MyNottingham app.
4.0 Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures
For more information about the UK Quality Code for Higher Education and the qualification types and structures in use at the University of Nottingham, please consult the folowing:
UK Quality Code for Higher Education
Qualification types and structures
For more information about the diploma supplement, please consult the following Student Services page.
Student Services - Diploma Supplement page
5.0 Version control table
Version control table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework
QSC
August 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please email:
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 August 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/professional-work-based-learning/university-of-nottingham-online.aspx
Header: The University of Nottingham Online (UoNO) Regulations
Intro: From the academic year 2023/24 the University of Nottingham Online will be operating with a set of regulations to support learners engage in credit-bearing micro-credentials, and to allow the University of Nottingham Online to verify the provision of external providers of CPD.
Content:
The University of Nottingham Online (UoNO) Regulations - The University of NottinghamThe University of Nottingham Online (UoNO) Regulations
From the academic year 2023/24 the University of Nottingham Online will be operating with a set of regulations to support learners engage in credit-bearing micro-credentials, and to allow the University of Nottingham Online to verify the provision of external providers of CPD.Sections within this category
UoNO Verification Service
Microcredentials
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
09 January 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/changes-to-qm.aspx
Header: How to propose changes to the Quality Manual
Intro: No intro paragraph found
Content:
How to propose changes to the Quality Manual - The University of NottinghamHow to propose changes to the Quality Manual1. Purpose
This section of the quality manual explains the process if someone wishes to make changes to the quality manual.
2. Scope
This information is relevant to staff and students, learners and apprentices across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
3. Roles and Responsibilities
There are two ways to raise an item with Quality and Standards Committee:
If a change to the Quality Manual is being requested, then a paper to the committee will be needed (see below).  This will usually need to be prepared by the person requesting the change.
If a School or Department has a student or group of students who need permission to undertake an action that is outside of regulations, then a case to the committee will be needed. More information can be found via the following link:
How to submit an 'outside regulation' case to the Quality and Standards Committee
4. Procedural Steps
Papers to QSC can be submitted from any party with an interest in quality assurance at the University, where there is a collective need for a change, a correction, or a review of a specific policy or area of quality assurance.
It is necessary that any such requests have consulted broadly across the University before submission (but if you need any support with this, for example if you’re considering preparing a paper, please get in touch and we can help).   This enables collective consideration of the issue in question and will likely lead to more robust improvement suggestions.
Any suggested changes would need to be submitted to QSC for consideration and approval must be granted before any changes can be implemented.
Guidance on how to submit a paper is provided below. For relatively minor changes, you need to use the cover sheet and the quality manual mark up template.  For more substantive changes, you will additionally need to use the paper template to give a fuller explanation of the changes being proposed and the reasons for them.
5. Associated Documents, Appendicies and Resources
QSC Cover Sheet
QSC Paper Template
Quality Manual Template
Regulation Template
Standard Operating Procedure Template
Regulation and Standard Operating Procedure Template
The guidance documents below will be useful for you to review, particularly if this is the first time you are submitting a paper.
QSC paper submission guidance
Quality Manual Template Guidance
6. Version Control Table
Version control table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework based on content last modified on 19 February 2024.
QSC
July 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
24 January 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/outside-regulation-case.aspx
Header: How to submit an 'outside regulation' case to the Quality and Standards Committee
Intro: No intro paragraph found
Content:
How to submit an 'outside regulation' case to the Quality and Standards Committee - The University of NottinghamHow to submit an 'outside regulation' case to the Quality and Standards Committee1. Purpose
This section of the quality manual explains the process if someone needs to request permission to undertake an action which is outside of regulations.
2. Scope
This information is relevant to staff and students, learners and apprentices across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
3. Roles and Responsibilities
There are two ways to raise an item with Quality and Standards Committee:
1. If a change to the Quality Manual is being requested, then a paper to the committee will be needed.  This will usually need to be prepared by the person requesting the change. More information can be found via the following link:
How to request a change to the Quality Manual
2. If a School or Department has a student or group of students who need permission to undertake an action that is outside of regulations, then a case to the committee will be needed (see below).
4. Procedural Steps
If a School or department determines or is informed that an action is outside the provisions of the Quality Manual but still wishes to pursue that particular course, it is necessary for the relevant member of staff to write and submit an ‘exceptional case’ request to the Quality and Standards Committee to seek permission to operate outside of regulations.
To do this, School's should follow the procedure and use the forms linked to in section 5 below.
Some of these cases are considered by RAA members exercising delegated powers and some by QSC members (depending on the circumstances).  Either way, please remember, the person(s) reviewing the case will not be familiar with the faculty or course, so Schools should provide sufficient information.  The most common reason for a delayed response is because requests for additional information are needed.
Any questions regarding this process should be sent to the Registry and Academic Affairs Quality and Student Management systems team
ss-qsc-cases@nottingham.ac.uk
.
5. Associated Documents, Appendicies and Resources
QSC procedure for cases outside of regulations
QSC case request form (UG and PGT)
QSC case request form (PGR)
6. Version Control Table
Version control table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework based on content last modified on 19 February 2024.
QSC
July 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 January 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/professional-work-based-learning/uono-microcredential-regulations.aspx
Header: UoN microcredential regulations
Intro: This section contains the University's microcredential study regulations. These pages are only applicable to learners but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses, and in particular those staff within UoNO.
Content:
UoN microcredential regulations - The University of NottinghamUoN microcredential regulations
This section contains the University's microcredential study regulations. These pages are only applicable to learners but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses, and in particular those staff within UoNO.1. Overview
Unless specified otherwise all sections within the University’s Quality Manual apply to Learners enrolled or enrolling with UoNO.
For the purposes of the regulations contained within the Quality Manual, Learners study microcredentials (rather than modules) and are to be treated as students of the University of Nottingham (where a regulation refers to ‘student’, it also includes ‘learner’). Microcredentials are small (in time to study) learning blocks, which may or may not be credit bearing.
For the purposes of those directly linked regulations, UoNO is to be treated as a School or Department of the University of Nottingham.
In all Microcredentials, UoNO follows the
Policy on e-learning and distance learning
.
2. Enrolment
2.1
The enrolment processes will be managed by the University of Nottingham, Online (UoNO) as a part of the University of Nottingham.  UoNO learners must enrol via the UoNO webpages.
2.2
A learner enrolled on a credit-bearing UoNO Microcredential may not concurrently hold the status of a registered student at the University of Nottingham.
2.3
Learners may enrol direct onto individual microcredentials, but not onto a degree programme
3. Assessment
3.1
The Quality Manual
pages on assessment
provide most of the information learners will require in order to understand how assessment is regulated.
3.2
Key differentiating regulations  for UoN Learners:
3.2.1
All Assessment must be completed electronically and submitted through the UoNO platform.
3.2.2
Each assessment and Microcredential will be awarded a grade of either a pass or a fail. The award of a pass will be made where the Learner has demonstrated mastery of each assessed competency at or above the level detailed in the competency standards. Feedback will be provided and marks returned, normally within 28 working days.
3.2.3
A learner enrolled on a microcredential may stay enrolled on that microcredential for a maximum of 12 months from the date of registration, unless there are
extenuating circumstances
.
3.2.4
All Microcredentials will permit the submission of assessment at three submission points throughout the enrolment period of the Learner’s enrolment on the Microcredential. Learners may submit to more than one submission point in order to pass the Microcredential. They receive feedback each time they submit.  It is the responsibility of the Learner to ensure that they are aware of the date of each submission point and that they submit within the required timeframe.
3.2.5
The
Extenuating Circumstances
regulation applies to all Microcredentials offered by UoNO and provides Learners with details on how they can apply to extend their enrolment for a Microcredential. The impact of an extension to enrolment can be to give a Learner another assessment submission at a later date.
3.2.6
It is the responsibility of UoNO to ensure that submission points are clearly advertised through the UoNO platform.
3.2.7
If a Learner fails to submit their assessment by the last submission point, UoNO will issue them with a ‘Fail: No Resit/Resubmission’ for their Microcredential result. The same outcome will be issued if a Learner does not pass all the required assessments during the enrolment period. Learners will not be allowed another opportunity to submit assessment and will not be eligible to repeat study of that Microcredential at a reduced fee. Should a Learner wish to repeat study of that Microcredential at a later date, they will need to re-enrol for their Microcredential on the UoNO platform and pay the Microcredential fee in full. It will be at the discretion of the UoNO enrolment team as to whether a re-enrolment will be permitted.
3.2.8
Late submissions without an approved ‘
Extenuating Circumstances
’ claim are not normally permitted.   Extensions to submission points are not permitted, excepting cases in which the UoNO submission platform suffers from a documented failure within 24 hours of a submission point. .
3.2.9
Any Learner needing to withdraw should consult the non-academic terms and conditions.
4. Putting Microcredentials towards a qualification
4.1
If a Learner enrols onto a Microcredential and satisfies all of the competency requirements, then they will be awarded the Microcredential. Some Microcredentials are credit bearing and some are not.
4.2
If a learner is awarded a Microcredential, they may be able to count that towards a University of Nottingham qualification. Only a limited number of qualifications expressly state that they will accept Microcredentials. Where they do so, the programme specifications will outline which Microcredentials may be counted towards the qualification and how many credits they will contribute.
4.3
Only those University of Nottingham Qualifications that expressly state that they will permit the counting of Microcredentials towards the University of Nottingham qualification are committed to doing so. These qualifications must satisfy the University of Nottingham
Programmes
regulations.
4.4
Courses expressly stating that they will permit the counting of Microcredentials towards UoN qualifications may do so through one of three structures:
4.4.1
An open pathway combined studies award (PG Cert or PGDip). For this award to be made, Learners will need to pass Microcredentials through UoNO that collectively count for 60 (PG Cert) or 120 (PGDiP) credits within the Combined Studies programme specification.
4.4.2
A restricted studies award (PG Cert or PGDiP). For this award to be made, Learners will need to pass specific, named Microcredentials that collectively count for 60 (PG Cert) or 120 (PGDiP) credits within the relevant programme specification.
4.4.3
A directed studies award (PC Cert or PGDiP). For this award to be made, Learners will need to pass specific, named Microcredentials, in a specific order, and that collectively count for 60 (PG Cert) or 120 (PGDiP) credits within the relevant programme specification
4.5
A Learner who satisfies the conditions for a directed studies award, may not be made a restricted or open pathway award.
4.6
For all such awards, Learners may only be made the award at a pass (awards of merit and distinction are not available).
4.7
Other courses may, at the discretion of the relevant School, count Microcredentials towards a University of Nottingham qualification under the
Recognition of Other Learning
regulations.
5. Feedback, Complaints and Appeals
5.1
UoNO will provide an online mechanism for Microcredential Learners on each Microcredential to provide feedback on the quality of teaching and materials for each Microcredential.
5.2
UoNO will also periodically provide access to an online forum (Student Staff Fora) where Microcredential Learners can discuss with one another the strengths of and any concerns that they have with any given Microcredential. UoNO will consider this feedback three times per year, and report to the Microcredential Learner community any changes that will be made or that are planned, as a result.
5.3
UoN has student
complaints and student appeals policies
that are open to Microcredential Learners. Microcredential Learners wishing to lodge a complaint or appeal must use procedure described.
6. Governance
6.1
For any guidance provided within the UoN Quality Manual, learners are advised that UoNO has the same standing and responsibilities as a School, wherever regulation is flagged as relevant.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 January 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/prog-and-mod-design-and-approval/credit-bearing-microcredentials-design-and-approval.aspx
Header: Credit-bearing microcredentials design and approval
Intro: This page contains a step-by-step guide for the introduction of a new credit bearing micro-credential. Its contents are primarily directed at staff, but they may also be of interest to students at UoNO.
Content:
Credit-bearing microcredentials design and approval - The University of NottinghamCredit-bearing microcredentials design and approval
This page contains a step-by-step guide for the introduction of a new credit bearing micro-credential. Its contents are primarily directed at staff, but they may also be of interest to students at UoNO.Overview
Schools intending to introduce a new credit bearing microcredential should first discuss their plans with UoNO. UoNO will decide whether to progress to the formal design phase. UoNO will advise Schools on the development process.
If this process is successful, then with the support of UoNO Schools may complete the New Credit bearing microcredential Information Template and submit it to Curriculum Leads in Registry and Academic Affairs. New Credit bearing micro-credentials will be approved by Curriculum Leads in Registry and Academic Affairs if they are in line with the requirements for credit bearing micro-credential specifications, otherwise they will be referred for consideration on behalf of Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) to the Curriculum Approvals and Advisory Team in Registry and Academic Affairs. If revisions are required, the form will be returned to UoNO and the School with guidance on how to proceed.
Schools have a duty to consult with any other schools that are likely to have a legitimate interest in the creation of the credit bearing microcredential, e.g. if the subject matter of the new credit bearing micro-credential has any overlap with provision in another School.
For more information about creating a new microcredential, please consult the following:
Submission form for new microcredentials
Conditions for a new credit-bearing microcredential approval approval submission
In submitting a new credit bearing microcredential for approval, the following should be considered:
That, if relevant, the school indicates programme(s) of which the new credit bearing microcredential forms an integral part.
Additional information
Includes:
Registry and Academic Affairs; Campus Solutions; Curriculum Updating
Schools will be provided with clear information about deadlines in advance of the curriculum updating cycle.
Module information in Campus Solutions is used for relevant central processes and will be published in the Online Module Catalogue.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please email:
ss-curriculumadvice@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 January 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/concerns-complaints-and-appeals/unm-unnc-academic-appeals.aspx
Header: Policy on academic appeals (UNM and UNNC)
Intro: This page contains the University's policy on academic appeals. Its content is applicable to staff and students across China and Malaysia campuses only.
Content:
Policy on academic appeals (UNM and UNNC) - The University of NottinghamPolicy on academic appeals (UNM and UNNC)
This page contains the University's policy on academic appeals. Its content is applicable to staff and students across China and Malaysia campuses only.1. Definition
For the purposes of this policy an academic appeal, as defined by the Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA), is a "request for a review of a decision of an academic body charged with making decisions on student progress, assessment and awards."
2. Overview of the Academic Appeals procedure
Includes:
campus variations
For more information about the academic appeals procedure on each campus, please consult the following:
Academic Appeals Procedure: University of Nottingham Malaysia Campus
Academic Appeals Procedure: University of Nottingham Ningbo Campus
The following applies to UNNC and UNM only, for UNUK please see the following:
Student Academic Appeals Code of Practice
3. Who can use the academic appeals procedure and the right to appeal?
The appeals procedure is available to students of the University of Nottingham, with the exception of students who have had their registration suspended by the University, other than at their own request under the voluntary interruption of studies procedure.
For more information about voluntary interruption of studies, please consult the following:
Voluntary interruption of studies
4. The right to appeal
Students have the right to appeal to the Academic Appeals Committee against the following final decisions of an academic body charged with making decisions on assessment, progression and awards:
(a)
The conditions imposed and/or the requirement to take reassessments to progress to the next stage of a taught course or phase of research study.
(b)
A decision to terminate a student's current programme of study. This includes students whose programme of study is terminated but who are offered a transfer to another taught course or research degree.
(c)
A classification decision.
1
In addition to appeals against the class of honours degree awarded, this also includes appeals against the classification of postgraduate awards and of other undergraduate awards.
1
A student who did not make the University aware of serious circumstances affecting their study before a progression Examination Board made its decision and who has met the progression requirements of the course, may appeal to be allowed further assessments in affected modules to mitigate a possible effect on their future degree classification. Such an appeal would be considered if submitted within one month of the marks confirming progression being published  and where the student demonstrates compelling reasons why they were unable to make the University aware of circumstances affecting their study prior to the Examination Board decision – for example, reasons associated with a disability, medically-evidenced incapacity to engage with support procedures.
(d)
A decision not to award the qualification for which a student is registered. This relates to decisions made at the end of a student's taught course or research degree; and includes appeals against decisions not to award any qualification or to award a lower qualification.
(e)
A decision of a University Fitness to Practise Committee or Practice Assessment Panel. This is relevant to students on professional courses who have been the subject of Fitness to Practise procedures. For more information, about Fitness to Practise procedures, please consult the following:
Fitness to practise procedures
(f)
The outcome of an Extenuating Circumstances claim. For more information about extenuating circumstance procedures, please consult the following:
Extenuating circumstances
5. Grounds for appeals
5.1
It is for the student to establish the case and only claims of at least one of the following circumstances will be considered as grounds for appeal:
(i)
That parts of the documented assessment procedure were not applied and that this procedural irregularity, which has disadvantaged the student, was significant enough to have materially affected the decision or recommendation made, rendering it unsound.
(ii)
That prejudice or bias on the part of one or more of the examiners took place and can be proven or there are grounds to support a reasonable perception of prejudice or bias.
(iii)
That the decision making body took a decision which no reasonable person would find comprehensible. Disagreement with the decision does not make it manifestly unreasonable. To apply this ground the student must provide substantive argumentation as to why no reasonable person could have arrived at the decision that was made.
(iv)
The student’s performance was materially affected by circumstances and there is new evidence of these circumstances which was not, and could not have been, made available to the Board of Examiners at the time of its original decision.
5.2
The following circumstances will not be considered grounds for appeal:
(a)
Perceived shortcomings in tuition, supervision or support. Concerns relating to the quality of teaching or supervision, or other circumstances that relate to the delivery of a programme of study should be raised under the Policy on student complaints before the point of assessment or the submission of a thesis or dissertation. Cases where complaints are upheld and there has been a clear impact on an academic outcome may lead to an academic conclusion e.g. allowing a student a further attempt at an assessment.
For more information about the Policy on student complaints, please consult the following:
Policy on student complaints
(b)
Matters of academic judgement of a School Board of Examiners or individual. The student will not be permitted to argue the academic merits of their work. The student's assertion that the result unfairly reflects the merit of their work or their ability is not a ground of appeal.
(c)
Disagreement with the actual mark awarded for a piece of assessed work except where grounds can be established above. If a student wished to have clarification about a mark received for an individual assessment or module they are advised to contact their School or module convener directly. Errors in calculating or recording marks on the basis of which the original decision was made cannot be submitted as grounds for appeal, unless these errors have been brought to the School's attention but not accepted by the School.
(d)
Appeals against provisional marks.
(e)
Any matters relating to circumstances affecting study which could have been raised before the meeting of the Board of Examiners.
Principles of the policy
Includes:
timescales; treatment of the appeal; advice from the Students' Union
The decisions made will be reasonable and, where required, provide appropriate redress.
Appeals submitted outside the timescales prescribed in the procedure will only be considered in the most exceptional circumstances and where there is good reason, supported by evidence, for the late submission.
Appeals will be treated seriously and students will not suffer any disadvantage or recrimination as the result of making an appeal in good faith.
The University Policy on Communications with Third Parties is applicable to this policy. It is expected that students or people communicating on behalf of a student will conduct themselves responsibly and treat the process and those members of the University involved in the process with respect at all times. Where behaviour falls outside these expectations, the University’s Unacceptable Behaviour Policy will apply. For more information about the Policy on Communications with Third Parties, please consult the following:
Policy on Communications with Third Parties
The University will not accept or investigate appeals which it considers to be in breach of the standards set out in the Unacceptable Behaviour Policy. For more information about the University's Unacceptable Behaviour Policy, please consult the following:
Unacceptable Behaviour Policy
The procedures are fair and transparent.
The Complaints and Conduct Manager has executive oversight of the process.
The process is evidence-based.
Students are encouraged to seek advice from an Education Adviser in Students' Union advice or equivalent office University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM) and University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC) at any stage in the process, including seeking advice on how to present their case effectively.
Appeals form part of the University's process of quality review and improvement and are considered as providing valuable feedback rather than criticism. We will widely publicise information about procedures to students and staff, and all schools and central services are required to provide a link to them via their websites.
Students will be notified early in the process if the remedy sought within the appeal is beyond what the University can reasonably provide or what is in its power to provide.
It is important for students to note that the Office of the Independent Adjudicator cannot consider matters which are or which have been the subject of court proceedings. Similarly, the University reserves the right to decline, suspend or to discontinue an appeal made under the Academic Appeal Procedure, in the event that legal proceedings are commenced and the claim concerns the same subject matter as the appeal.
Recording and monitoring of academic appeals
It is important that appeals are monitored in order to improve the student experience. The Complaints and Conduct Team will record and provide reports to indicate the nature of appeals and outcomes. Such reports will:
Feed into the monitoring and evaluation procedure at various levels: department, school, faculty and University;
Feed directly into appropriate University-wide committees;
Assist in identifying problems and trends across the University;
Form the basis of positive publicity, in demonstrating that identified issues have been resolved;
Be made available to the Students' Union
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 September 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-procedures-for-assessment.aspx
Header: Procedures for assessment
Intro: This page sets out the criteria for the award of qualifications, examiner reports and feedback. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Procedures for assessment - The University of NottinghamProcedures for assessment
This page sets out the criteria for the award of qualifications, examiner reports and feedback. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Please be aware that during academic year 2020/21, the University introduced additional guidance in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. This page was previously affected by these arrangements and has been documented accordingly.
Further details can be found in the "Additional guidance in 2020/21 due to Covid-19" section below.
1. Policy
Includes:
receipt of information; formal notice; submission information
Every research student and those members of academic staff eligible to act as Internal or External Examiners will receive information on the University's procedures for assessing research degree submissions.
A student wishing to submit a thesis for examination must give formal notice to Student Services, (School Registry Office at the University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM) or the Graduate School for the University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC)) of the intention to submit (see the Documentation section for the form and Submission Pack).
Submission information pack for PGRs
The form can also be submitted to the candidate’s School for onward transmission to Student Services. Student Services, UNM School Registry or the Graduate School at UNNC will make arrangements for the nomination and appointment of Examiners (see the Documentation section) and, provided that the thesis has been submitted, will forward the thesis to the Examiners within one week of receiving the Examiners’ written agreement to act.
2. Criteria for award of qualifications
Includes:
frameworks; presentation of thesis; originality requirements
Research degrees will be awarded at Masters or Doctoral level to students who have demonstrated that they satisfy the relevant qualification descriptors contained in the University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (UNQF). For more information about the UNQF, please consult the following:
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
The thesis should be presented in a satisfactory manner. The subject matter must be clearly and precisely expressed, its arguments logical and intelligible, and its language appropriate. It must show that the student not only has ideas, but also has the ability to put them into suitable words.
The thesis must be written by the student and be the result of the student's own work. The requirement does not preclude a student obtaining limited assistance with the routine collection and/or processing of data under guidelines and instructions clearly devised by the student. When such help is obtained it should be with the prior approval of the supervisor who must be satisfied that the spirit of the 'own work' requirement is not breached. Students are encouraged to publish papers in advance of submission of their thesis and prior publication of papers arising from the research being undertaken should not prejudice the assessment of the thesis.
3. Examiners' reports
Includes:
submission; format; merits and shortcomings of a submission
The Examiners should submit independent reports on the submission to Registry and Academic Affairs, the Student Registry Office at UNM or the Graduate School at UNNC, or the Head of School before the viva voce examination takes place.
The reports need not be provided in a standard format but must be written in English and word-processed or typed and must include the name and School of the student, the degree sought, the signature, name (printed), position of the Examiner (i.e Internal or External) and the date. They should contain a full and frank assessment of the merits and weaknesses of the thesis in the light of the criteria described above. It is suggested that a favourable report should normally fill at least one side of A4 paper.
It is particularly important that the merits and shortcomings of a submission are provided in full and in detail if the report is unfavourable and, therefore, a lengthier report might be expected. It should be noted that Examiners' Independent and Joint reports will be given to the candidate when the examination outcome is notified and circulated to staff and students as part of the University's Appeals procedures if relevant.
4. Feedback to candidate and examiners' report
Includes:
viva voce examination; formal written correspondence
Following a viva voce examination, the student should be given immediate informal feedback on the outcome of the examination and should be advised that more formal details will be transmitted later in writing.
The Internal Examiner should also write to the student formally conveying the joint views of the Examiners on the submission, describing in detail the academic and presentational reasons for their recommendation, and, if appropriate, providing clear advice about what matters should be addressed in any resubmission.
For more information about viva voce examinations, please consult the following:
Viva voce examinations
5. Approval of examiners' report
Includes:
joint report form; role of Student Services
The Joint Report Form shall be forwarded by the Examiners to the Head of School for approval and  signature and they shall forward the Independent and Joint Report Forms to Student Services for approval by the University.
*NB the same procedure shall be followed with respect to students who submit their theses for examination at UNM or UNNC. The Student Registry or Graduate School should also receive copies of the Examiners' reports (including Head of School's signature) for information only. Staff in Student Services shall be responsible for ensuring that staff at UNM or UNNC are kept informed of the University's decision concerning such submissions.
Student Services will write to the student within one week of the University's decision being made, informing them of the recommendation that the degree be awarded (or not) and advising them of the procedures for graduating, or for lodging an appeal, as appropriate.
Key documentation
Includes: Information for Examiners, supervisors and candidates; guidance on submission by published works; submission pack for candidates; notification of submission of thesis guidance
Information for examiners, supervisors and candidates for the degree of MPhil and other research degrees at Masters Level
Information for examiners, supervisors and candidates for the degree of PhD, EdD, DM and other qualifications at doctoral level
Submission for research degree by published works
Submission information pack for PGRs
Notification of submission of thesis for examination of a research degree
Notification of submission of thesis for examination of a research degree
Notification of submission of thesis for examination of a research degree
Additional guidance in 2020/21 due to Covid-19
Please be aware that the following guidance was developed and applied during academic year 2020/21 in response to the coronavirus pandemic, and should be read in conjunction with all other content on this page:
Submission Pack for Candidates (during Covid-19)
Covid-19 and doctoral examinations – additional guidance for examiners for doctoral candidates at the University of Nottingham
The active application of these arrangements then ceased at the beginning of academic year 2021/22. Any outcomes from their previous application will, however, continue to be honoured and used in all decisions regarding those affected.
For more information about the Exceptional Regulations as a whole, please consult the following:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - 2019/20 - 2020/21
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 February 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/pol-e-exams.aspx
Header: Policy on e-exams
Intro: This page contains the University's policy on e-exams, including an outline of its minimum expectations. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Policy on e-exams - The University of NottinghamPolicy on e-exams
This page contains the University's policy on e-exams, including an outline of its minimum expectations. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.This represents an interim arrangement for academic year 2022-23 as the University prepares for the introduction of a new e-exams platform as part of the Curriculum Management and e-Assessment project. For 2022-23, campuses at University of Nottingham in Malaysia (UNM) and University of Nottingham in Ningbo, China (UNNC) may operate a different approach to e-exams depending on their local circumstances and operations.
1. Overview
Includes:
definition;
expectations; staff and School requirements; technical failure; student access
1.1
By electronic exams (e-exams) we mean summative assessments set in Moodle (including via Turnitin) or ExamSys for a whole module cohort of a duration of 24 hours or less. These may be assessments set during the University’s formal assessment or reassessment periods, and also includes assessments that are classified as ‘exams’ in Campus Solutions but take place outside of the University’s designated exam periods.
This policy focuses on summative e-exams, so formative e-exams, such as formative class tests run during teaching periods, are not covered by this policy.   Additionally, other modes of summative e-exam, such as presentations or language oral exams, which are typically arranged on a one-to-one basis, are not covered by this policy; they would be considered an ‘exam’ (not e-exam) under Quality Manual regulations, whether undertaken in person or remotely (e.g. on Teams).
E-exams are therefore treated categorically as ‘exams’, and are separate from the rules governing ‘coursework’. For ExamSys (formerly Rogo) assessments, this includes both exams taken remotely, and exams taken under invigilated conditions on campus.
1.2
Summative e-exams (as defined above) should only be set using ExamSys, Moodle Assignments or Turnitin. Other e-exam platforms are not supported by the University and should not be used for summative exams (with the exception of certain specialist subject assessment tools already approved for use in certain areas).
1.3
The e-exams policy outlines the minimum requirements that the University expects to be met when delivering summative assessment electronically. The requirements of the policy are in addition to normal University policies, procedures and regulations relating to assessment, which will apply unless otherwise stated.
1.4
Module conveners should ensure that approval from their School Teaching and Learning Committee (or equivalent) is obtained before e-exam is used as a tool for summative assessment.
1.5
All staff members involved in the e-exam process must be familiar with the on-line environment and have attended the appropriate University training course prior to gaining access to the system.
1.6
Schools must ensure that e-exam is fit for purpose and does not compromise the assessment methodology and the integrity of what is being assessed.
1.7
Comprehensive University-wide plans should be in place to manage every aspect of the e-exam procedure ensuring that the process is robust, reliable, fair and efficient and that robust contingency plans are in place to mitigate against technical failure.
1.8
For ExamSys (formerly Rogo) e-exams invigilated on campus, where technical failure occurs within the first 75% of the time over which the examination is scheduled, the examination may be rescheduled and/or may be offered in paper form (if appropriate). If failure should occur within the last 25% of the time over which the examination is scheduled, the examination will be abandoned and marks gained may, at the discretion of the exam board, be scaled accordingly.
1.9
Students must be given access to, and be familiar with, the examination format, question types and the technology prior to the summative e-exam.
2. Roles and responsibilities
Includes:
roles and responsibilities
2.1
Schools wishing to use e-exams should ensure that they comply with the appropriate procedures and policies which include the roles and responsibilities of staff, both within and outside of the School, who are involved in the e-exam process. Schools are responsible for the academic aspect of the e-exam.
2.2
Registry and Academic Affairs (RAA) will be responsible for the practical arrangements for all summative examinations - this includes scheduling, room booking and invigilation.
2.3
RAA will be responsible for establishing a schedule of exams, setting up submission boxes on Moodle, arranging additional time for students with support plans, and communicating the schedule to students and staff.
2.4
DTS are responsible for the technical infrastructure, which enables assessment to occur including technical support during e-exams.
2.5
RAA colleagues will release all e-exam papers on Moodle at the designated times. Appropriate review of pressure points in the timetable will be undertaken by RAA colleagues prior to the exam periods and targeted interventions made to minimise the risk to Moodle.  Module conveners will be contacted separately where this is the case. Also, communications on what to expect and how to manage periods of slow function or interruption will be distributed to staff and students ahead of the exam period and via prominent messaging on Moodle.
2.6
Module convenors should continue to provide details of what students should expect from all e-exams including the structure of the paper, the material it covers, and how to revise effectively.  Module conveners are responsible for uploading ExamSys e-exams. Once the paper has been uploaded, module convenors are not permitted to answer any questions from students about the paper. Any corrective actions in the event of a question error will be considered during the moderation and marks adjustment processes.
For more information about moderation and marks adjustment processes, please consult the following:
Policy on marking and grading
2.7
Schools and Departments are recommended to make all students aware of the Essential Guidance for Students on Academic Integrity in Online Examinations. It is recommended that links to this document are also included in the submission box created by RAA colleagues for the e-exams.
For more information about Essential Guidance for Students on Academic Integrity in Online Examinations, please consult the following:
The Academic Misconduct Procedure
3. Assessment design and delivery
Includes:
integrity of the examination process; duration of e-exams; extra time for students with support plans; External Examiners
3.1
All e-exams in Moodle longer than 3 hours should be set with a duration of 24 hours. E-exams in Moodle with a duration of up to 3 hours are known as ‘short timed exams’ (STEs) and can be scheduled for 1, 2 or 3 hours. Assessments with a duration of longer than 24 hours are classified as ‘coursework’ and should not normally have deadlines set during designated exam periods, except where student cohorts are unlikely to be sitting significant numbers of exams.
3.2
For e-exams in Moodle of 24 hours, students should be clearly informed that they are not expected to work continuously during the 24-hour assessment window. An indication of active working time (an appropriate number of hours for students to spend on these exams) should be signposted in the rubric on the front of the exam paper: this should not normally be more than 3 hours. Students with extensions due to support plans should also be advised how to approach their assessment windows and active working time within them.
3.3
E-exams using ExamSys will routinely be set during a single working day.  In line with current practice, any duration, not normally exceeding 3 hours, is permitted.
3.4
Upload time windows and late submission are covered in the ‘Assessment Regulations’ section of the Quality Manual.
For more information about upload time windows and late submissions, please consult the following:
Assessment regulations
3.5
For e-exams, students with support plans will be given 50% additional time, with the exception of students who require more than 50% additional time. This 50% extension already includes adjustments such as reading time and rest breaks.  i.e. including additional upload times, this is 2 hours 15 minutes for a one hour e-exam, 3 hours 45 minutes for 2 hour e-exams, and 5 hours 15 minutes for 3 hour e-exams.
3.6
For 24-hour e-exams, students with support plans requiring 50% extra time will have an additional five working hours, so submission will fall within the same working day. Students who require more than 50% extra time may be asked to submit their work on the following day.
3.7
The University will explore what provision might be made for accommodating students with disabilities to sit their e-exams on campus, particularly where a scribe is required.
3.8
If Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies (PSRBs) require a different approach to support plan accommodations that deviate from this policy, permission should be sought, via RAA, under the QSC procedure for cases outside of regulations.
3.9
The academic processes surrounding the compilation of e-exams should be the same as those for other forms of assessment but, in addition:
i.)   External Examiners should have knowledge of e-exams and be provided with appropriate training to allow for effective interaction with the University’s software
ii.)   In order to fulfil their responsibilities, External Examiners should be granted access to the e-exam software to review examination papers and student scripts in the format in which they are to be delivered. External Examiners should also be made aware of the checks that are put in place to ensure that academic misconduct does not occur.
iii.)   External Examiners should approve the base design of the e-exam as well as the checks that are put in place to ensure that academic misconduct does not occur.
3.10
In accordance with standard University procedure all questions should be peer reviewed.
For more information about the role of External Examiners, please consult the following:
Appointment and responsibilities of External Examiners
3.11
In order to protect the integrity of the examinations process, it will only be possible for students to take campus-based invigilated summative e-exams away from designated University examination venues where appropriate checks are put in place to ensure that academic misconduct does not occur.  Schools should exercise academic judgement in determining what is appropriate within their subject areas and modes of assessment.  Before seeking to implement any such approach, Schools much check the technical and logistical viability of their approach with DTS and RAA.
3.12
Requests to vary the University Assessment Regulations to accommodate e-exams should be made to, and approved by, Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) before the assessment is set. For example, it is recognised that in some cases PSRB requirements may require deviation from the regulations outlined above, and these should be sought, via RAA, under the QSC procedure for cases outside of regulations.
For more information about the QSC procedure for cases outside of regulations, please consult the following:
Quality and Standards Committee
4. Scheduling of e-exam
Includes:
responsibilities
4.1
RAA will normally be responsible for scheduling all summative e-exams. If, however, the e-exams occurs outside the main exam periods, it is the School’s responsibility to ensure that any requested time slot avoids timetable conflicts for students. Schools should also be mindful of availability of computer rooms outside of the main exam period when they are being used for teaching activity.
4.2
It is the responsibility of Schools to adhere to the published timelines for summative examinations. If the published deadlines dates cannot be met it will be the responsibility of the School to support these examinations in-house.
4.3
It is the responsibility of Schools to ensure the suitability of checks to ensure that academic misconduct does not occur.
4.4
For STEs in Moodle and ExamSys, students will be clearly informed about release times. These will usually be 9am or 1.30pm, but may be 4.30pm or, if needed to protect system performance, release times could be released 15-30 minutes later than these times.
4.5
For 24-hour e-exams, these will usually be released at 9am (Monday to Friday). The submission time will be set on Moodle at the same time on the following working day (Tuesday to Saturday).
4.6
RAA will aim to create an exam timetable which avoids more than two STE exams timetabled in the same day. Students may find that they have two overlapping 24-hour exams, or a short-timed exam overlapping with a 24-hour exam, and these should be treated in the same way as two STEs, since the assessment windows will allow active working time for two assessments within the same working day.
4.7
If a student has a support plan and has a 24-hour exam with a deadline on the same day as another 24-hour exam, or on the same day as an STE, one additional working day will be permitted to complete that 24-hour exam. Therefore if the normal deadline is 09.00 on a Friday, the student’s deadline will already have been extended to 14.00 that same day due to a support plan, and if the student has multiple deadlines that day, their new deadline will be 14.00 on the Saturday. No further extensions can be granted, even if that student has another deadline on the Saturday.
4.8
All exams will be set according to UK time (BST/GMT) when Digital Technology Services (DTS) will be available (Learning Technologies will supplement with out-of-hours support where necessary).
5. Assessment of students
Includes:
responsibility of the School; information provided to students; checking the accuracy of system generated marks
5.1
The School is responsible for ensuring that students are aware of contingency arrangements to cover technical failure on the day of a scheduled e-exam.
5.2
It is the responsibility of the School to approve all marking schemes which may include negative marking or compensation for baseline guess. Details of how these marking schemes are applied must be made clear to the students before the e-exam.
5.3
Comprehensive programme and/or module information must be provided to students which should include details of all e-exam requirements included marking criteria.
5.4
Students sitting e-exams for summative purposes must be given an opportunity to familiarise themselves with the software before formal e-exam takes place.
5.5
School procedures should include systems for checking accuracy of system generated marks, the accurate recording of these marks within the student record system and protocols for the amendment/removal of flawed questions in line with the moderation and marks adjustment processes.
For more information about moderation and marks adjustment processes, please consult the following:
Policy on marking and grading
6. Invigilation
6.1
Invigilation for centrally scheduled examinations will be through normal University procedures.
6.2
RAA will be responsible for ensuring that invigilation arrangements are appropriate for the medium of delivery.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
22 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/ug-deg-class-sept15.aspx
Header: Undergraduate degree classification from September 2015 to September 2020
Intro: This page contains the degree classifications for all undergraduate students who entered their Qualifying year or Part I from September 2015 and before September 2020. Its contents are only applicable to students who were admitted from that date but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Undergraduate degree classification from September 2015 to September 2020 - The University of NottinghamUndergraduate degree classification from September 2015 to September 2020
This page contains the degree classifications for all undergraduate students who entered their Qualifying year or Part I from September 2015 and before September 2020. Its contents are only applicable to students who were admitted from that date but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Honours and Integrated Masters degrees
Includes:
commencement dates; former regulations
These regulations take effect from 2015/16 for students entering Qualifying year or Part I from September 2015 and before September 2020. Students entering Qualifying year or Part I before September 2015 are subject to the former regulations. For more information about the former regulations, please consult the following:
Degree classification before September 2015
Standardised weightings between Parts apply unless an approved PSRB or other exemption has been given and this is stated in the relevant programme specification(s).
Arithmetic mean model
Includes:
unit marks; modules marks; weightings; weighted numerical average; borderlines
1.
Unit marks (see footnote 1 in the All awards section) are numeric.
2.
Module mark is calculated from unit marks and rounded to a numeric integer
3.
Module marks are weighted accordingly to the number of credits attached to the module - for example, a 20 credit module is weighted double compared to a 10 credit module.
4.
The relative weightings of Part I/II/III marks are given in programme specifications.
5.
A weighted numerical average is calculated using the weightings indicated in 3 and 4 above.
6.
The weighted numerical average is rounded. For more information, please consult the following:
Policy on marking and grading
7.
Weighted numerical average is translated into degree classification according to Table 1.
Table 1
I
=
70%+
II-1
=
60% - 69%
II-2
=
50% - 59%
III
=
40% - 49%
Pass
* that is, an unclassified degree and therefore awarded without honours.
=
40%+ (which can include reassessment marks from Parts I/II/III)
Only the following rounded marks will be regarded as “borderline”:
68/69 Borderline I
58/59 Borderline II-1
48/49 Borderline II-2
At the III/Fail boundary there is no borderline.
Other Undergraduate awards
Includes:
classifications; borderlines; calculating an overall average
Ordinary Degrees and Undergraduate and Graduate Certificates and Diplomas are classified using a weighted numerical average as defined above. The classifications are:
Distinction = 70%
Merit = 60% - 69%
Pass = 40% - 59%
Only the following rounded marks will be regarded as borderline:
68/69 Borderline Distinction
58/59 Borderline Merit
At the Pass/Fail boundary there is no borderline.
When calculating an overall average, in the case of Ordinary Degrees, classification is based on the best marks obtained from 100 credits at Part I and the best marks obtained from 100 credits at Part II.
In the case of Undergraduate Diplomas the classification is based on the best marks obtained in 120 credits taken in stage 2 or 3 including at least 90 credits at level 2.
Taught Postgraduate awards (to apply to courses beginning in September 2006 and after)
Includes:
classification; postgraduate diplomas and certificates; borderlines
The classification rules for Taught Masters, Postgraduate Diplomas and Postgraduate Certificates (i.e. the award of Merits and Distinctions) are contained in the University’s Taught Postgraduate Regulations. For more information, please consult the following:
Postgraduate taught degrees from September 2015 (for students starting awards from September 2016)
Borderlines for these qualifications are:
68 or 69 Borderline Distinction (individual programme specifications state whether the borderline is 68 or 69)
59 Borderline Merit
49 Borderline Pass (Master, also PGDip and PGCert from 2012/13)
39 Borderline Pass (PGDip and PGCert for students who registered for taught postgraduate degrees prior to the 2012/13 Session only)
All awards
Includes:
use of borderlines; extenuating circumstances; footnotes
Use of borderlines
Following moderation an agreed algorithm is used to determine the final composite mark. If this falls within a borderline as defined above, the weighted profiling system as stated in the programme specification will be applied to determine the final classification (see footnote 3 below)
Extenuating circumstances
Students with acceptable extenuating circumstances should be considered in accordance with the Extenuating Circumstances Policy and Procedures. For more information, please consult the following:
Extenuating circumstances procedure
Footnotes
1.
“Unit mark” is the mark awarded for an individual piece of assessed work, which goes towards the computation of a module mark using a weighting formula.
2.
For students registering on programmes from 2009/10 onwards, Schools should use only a weighted profiling system for determining the degree class of borderline students. The profiling system must be stated in the programme specification and made explicit and clear to students from the start of their studies through School Handbooks.
3.
For students entering Qualifying year or Part I from 2015/16 onwards, Schools should use only the standardised weighted profiling system for determining the degree class of borderline students.
A student should be given the higher class if either of the following criteria are met:
i)
Half or more of the final stage credits are in the higher class;
ii)
Half or more of the final and penultimate stage credits are in the higher class.
This does not preclude the consideration of Extenuating Circumstances of students, whether inside or outside the borderline.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
22 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/pgt-deg-sept15-16start.aspx
Header: Postgraduate taught degree classification from September 2015 (for students starting awards from September 2016)
Intro: This page contains the degree classifications for all postgraduate taught students who began their awards from September 2015. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Postgraduate taught degree classification from September 2015 (for students starting awards from September 2016) - The University of NottinghamPostgraduate taught degree classification from September 2015 (for students starting awards from September 2016)
This page contains the degree classifications for all postgraduate taught students who began their awards from September 2015. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Honours and Integrated Masters degrees
Includes:
commencement dates; former regulations
These regulations take effect from 2015/16 for students entering Qualifying year or Part I from September 2015. Students entering Qualifying year or Part I before September 2015 are subject to the former regulations. For more information about the former regulations, please consult the following:
Degree classification before September 2015
Standardised weightings between Parts apply unless an approved PSRB or other exemption has been given and this is stated in the relevant programme specification(s).
Arithmetic mean model
Includes:
unit marks; modules marks; weightings; weighted numerical average; borderlines
1.
Unit marks (see footnote 1 in the All awards section) are numeric.
2.
Module mark is calculated from unit marks and rounded to a numeric integer
3.
Module marks are weighted accordingly to the number of credits attached to the module - for example, a 20 credit module is weighted double compared to a 10 credit module.
4.
The relative weightings of Part I/II/III marks are given in programme specifications.
5.
A weighted numerical average is calculated using the weightings indicated in 3 and 4 above.
6.
The weighted numerical average is rounded. For more information, please consult the following:
Policy on marking and grading
7.
Weighted numerical average is translated into degree classification according to Table 1.
Table 1
I
=
70%+
II-1
=
60% - 69%
II-2
=
50% - 59%
III
=
40% - 49%
Pass * that is, an unclassified degree and therefore awarded without honours.
=
40%+ (which can include reassessment marks from Parts I/II/III)
Only the following rounded marks will be regarded as “borderline”:
68/69 Borderline I
58/59 Borderline II-1
48/49 Borderline II-2
At the III/Fail boundary there is no borderline.
Other Undergraduate awards
Includes:
classifications; borderlines; calculating an overall average
Ordinary Degrees and Undergraduate and Graduate Certificates and Diplomas are classified using a weighted numerical average as defined under the Arithmetic Mean Model above. The classifications are:
Distinction = 70%
Merit = 60% - 69%
Pass = 40% - 59%
Only the following rounded marks will be regarded as borderline:
68/69 Borderline Distinction
58/59 Borderline Merit
At the Pass/Fail boundary there is no borderline.
When calculating an overall average, in the case of Ordinary Degrees, classification is based on the best marks obtained from 100 credits at Part I and the best marks obtained from 100 credits at Part II.
In the case of Undergraduate Diplomas the classification is based on the best marks obtained in 120 credits taken in stage 2 or 3 including at least 90 credits at level 2.
Taught Postgraduate Awards (to apply to courses beginning in September 2016 and after)
Includes:
classification; postgraduate diplomas and certificates; borderlines
The classification rules for Taught Masters, Postgraduate Diplomas and Postgraduate Certificates (that is, the award of Merits and Distinctions) are contained in the University’s Taught Postgraduate Regulations. The classifications are:
Distinction = 70% and above
Merit = 60% - 69%
Pass = 50% - 59%
Borderlines for these qualifications are:
68/69 Borderline Distinction
58/59 Borderline Merit
50 Pass (there is no borderline at Pass/Fail)
All awards
Includes:
use of borderlines; extenuating circumstances; footnotes
Use of borderlines
Following moderation an agreed algorithm is used to determine the final composite mark.  If this falls within a borderline as defined above, the weighted profiling system as stated in the programme specification will be applied to determine the final classification (footnote 3).
Extenuating circumstances
Students with acceptable extenuating circumstances should be considered in accordance with the extenuating circumstances policy and procedures. For more information, please consult the following:
Extenuating Circumstances Procedure
Footnotes
1.
“Unit mark” is the mark awarded for an individual piece of assessed work, which goes towards the computation of a module mark using a weighting formula.
2.
For students registering on programmes from 2009/10 onwards, Schools should use only a weighted profiling system for determining the degree class of borderline students. The profiling system must be stated in the programme specification and made explicit and clear to students from the start of their studies through School Handbooks
3.
For students entering Qualifying year or Part I from 2015/16 onwards, Schools should use only the standardised weighted profiling system for determining the degree class of borderline students.
A student should be given the higher class if either of the following criteria are met:
Half or more of the final stage credits are in the higher class;
Half or more of the final and penultimate stage credits are in the higher class.
For students entering Taught Postgraduate programmes from 2016/17 onwards, Schools should use only the standardised weighted profiling system for determining the degree class of borderline students.
A student should be given the higher classification if the following criterion is met:
Half or more of the final credits are in the higher class.
This does not preclude the consideration of Extenuating Circumstances of students, whether inside or outside the borderline.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
22 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/deg-class-presept15.aspx
Header: Degree classification before September 2015
Intro: This page contains the degree classifications for all undergraduate and postgraduate taught students who entered their Qualifying year or Part I before September 2015. Its content is only applicable to students who were admitted before that date but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Degree classification before September 2015 - The University of NottinghamDegree classification before September 2015
This page contains the degree classifications for all undergraduate and postgraduate taught students who entered their Qualifying year or Part I before September 2015. Its content is only applicable to students who were admitted before that date but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Please be aware that during academic year 2019/20, the University introduced exceptional regulations in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. This page was previously affected by these arrangements and has been documented accordingly.
Further details can be found in the "Exceptional regulations applied in response to Covid-19" section below.
Honours and Integrated Masters degrees
Includes:
classifying undergraduate degrees; arithmetic mean model; responsibility of Schools offering Joint Honours courses
The three methods for classifying undergraduate degrees detailed below are approved for use in the University of Nottingham.
One ( Model 1 “arithmetic mean”) satisfies the need of those Schools/ departments which have traditionally found no difficulty in using the entire 100 marks in the percentage scale. The other two ( Models 2 “ordinal scale” and 3 “thresholds”) have been developed in recognition of the problems of classifying degrees, particularly first class honours, where marking conventions effectively discount the use of marks at both ends of the percentile range. This means that very good and very poor performance may be under- and over-stated respectively, or marks at the outer ends of the student's run of marks, perhaps awarded by other Schools, may have a disproportionate arithmetic impact on the classification of subject performance.
Schools offering Joint Honours courses should select a single model for classifying degrees. This requires a single programme specification for each Joint Honours course and necessitates a single weighting between Parts I, II and III.
Model 1 ("arithmetic mean")
Includes:
unit marks; module marks; weightings; weighted numerical average; borderline
1.
Unit marks (footnote 1 in the All awards section below) are numeric.
2.
Module mark is calculated from unit marks and rounded to a numeric integer
3.
Module marks are weighted accordingly to the number of credits attached to the module - for example, a 20 credit module is weighted double compared to a 10 credit module.
4.
The relative weightings of Part I/II/III marks are given in programme specifications.
5.
A weighted numerical average is calculated using the weightings indicated in 3 and 4 above.
6.
The weighted numerical average is rounded. For more information, please consult the following:
Policy on marking and grading
7.
Weighted numerical average is translated into degree classification according to Table 1.
Table 1
I
=
70%+
II-1
=
60% - 69%
II-2
=
50% - 59%
III
=
40% - 49%
Pass * that is, an unclassified degree and therefore awarded without honours.
=
40%+ (which can include reassessment marks from Parts I/II/III)
Only the following rounded marks will be regarded as “borderline”:
68 or 69 Borderline I (individual Programme Specifications state whether the borderline is 68 or 69).
59 Borderline II-1
49 Borderline II-2
39 Borderline III
Model 2 ("ordinal scale")
Includes:
unit marks; module grade; median mark
Please note, this model only applies to students who entered pre-September 2004.
Unit marks (footnote 1, under the All Awards section below) are literal (that is, A, B and others) and translate into numeric integer marks according to Table 2.
Module grade is calculated from median of literal grades.
Overall median mark calculated by assigning literal grade to each 10 credits. The total number of grades from which the final median is calculated depends on the weighting of Parts I/II set out in supplementary degree regulations. If there is a 50:50 split between Parts I and II then the calculation is a straightforward median of 24 grades. If Part II counts for twice as much as Part I the Year 3 grades are counted twice.
Median mark translated into degree classification according to Table 3.
Table 2
A+
78
A
75
A-
72
B+
68
B
65
B-
62
C+
58
C
55
C-
52
D+
48
D
45
D-
42
F
38
F-
32
X
25
X-
15
Z
0
Table 3
Median Mark
Degree Class
A- and above
I
B+/ A-
Borderline I
B+ to B-
II-1
C+/ B-
Borderline II-1
C+ to C-
II-2
D+/ C-
Borderline II-2
D+ to D-
III
D-/ F
Borderline III
When calculating the median of an even number of unit marks within a module Schools should assign the higher of the two marks that span the median - for example, the median of C, C+, B, B would be a B-.
Model 3 ("thresholds")
Includes:
unit marks; module mark; module scores
For more information about this section, please consult footnote 2 of the All awards section below.
Unit marks (footnote 1, in the All Awards section at the bottom of this page) are numeric.
Module mark is calculated from unit marks and rounded to a numeric integer.
Module marks are translated to points scores according to Table 4.
Module scores are added together and translated into a degree classification according to Table 5 .
Table 4
75%+
=
20
70% - 74%
=
18
60% - 69%
=
14
50% - 59%
=
10
40% - 49%
=
6
40% on resit
=
4
30% - 39%
=
2
0% - 29%
=
0
Table 5
I
376+ (eg a run of marks such as 12@ 18 + 10 @ 14 + 2 @ 10)
II-1
288 - 375 (eg a run of marks such as 12 @ 14 + 12 @ 10)
II-2
192-287 (e.g., a run of marks such as 12 @ 10 + 12 @ 6)
III
128-191 (e.g., a run of marks such as 20 @ 6 + 4 @ 4)
Scores within 12 points of a First, II-1, II-2 and III Class threshold are defined as borderline.
Other undergraduate awards
Includes:
classifications; borderlines; calculating an overall average undergraduate diplomas
Ordinary Degrees and Undergraduate and Graduate Certificates and Diplomas are classified using a weighted numerical average as defined under Model 1 above. The classifications are:
Distinction = 70%
Merit = 60% - 69%
Pass = 40% - 59%
Only the following rounded marks will be regarded as borderline:
68 or 69 Borderline Distinction (individual Programme Specifications state whether the borderline is 68 or 69)
59 Borderline Merit
39 Borderline Pass
When calculating an overall average, in the case of Ordinary Degrees, classification is based on the best marks obtained from 100 credits at Part I where a student has taken more than 100 credits at Part I.
In the case of Undergraduate Diplomas the classification is based on the best marks obtained in 120 credits taken in stage 2 or 3 including at least 90 credits at level 2.
Taught Postgraduate awards (to apply to courses beginning in September 2006 and after)
Includes:
borderlines
The classification rules for Taught Masters, Postgraduate Diplomas and Postgraduate Certificates (that is, the award of Merits and Distinctions) are contained in the University’s Taught Postgraduate Regulations. Borderlines for these qualifications are:
68 or 69 Borderline Distinction (individual programme specifications state whether the borderline is 68 or 69)
59 Borderline Merit
49 Borderline Pass (Master, also PGDip and PGCert from 2012/13)
39 Borderline Pass (PGDip and PGCert for students who registered for taught postgraduate degrees prior to the 2012/13 Session only)
All awards
Includes:
use of borderlines; extenuating circumstances procedure; footnotes
Use of borderlines
Following moderation the agreed algorithm is used to determine the final composite mark. If this falls within a borderline as defined above, the weighted profiling system as stated in the programme specification will be applied to determine the final classification (footnote 3).
Extenuating circumstances
Students with acceptable extenuating circumstances should be considered in accordance with the Extenuating Circumstances Policy and Procedures. For more information, please consult the following:
Extenuating Circumstances Procedure
Footnotes
1.
“Unit mark” is the mark awarded for an individual piece of assessed work, which goes towards the computation of a module mark using a weighting formula.
2.
This Model applies to courses with a 50:50 weighting between Parts I and II.
3.
For students registering on programmes from 2009/10 onwards, Schools should use only a weighted profiling system for determining the degree class of borderline students. The profiling system must be stated in the programme specification and made explicit and clear to students from the start of their studies through School Handbooks.
This does not preclude the consideration of Extenuating Circumstances of students, whether inside or outside the borderline.
Exceptional regulations applied in response to Covid-19
Please be aware that the following Exceptional Regulations were developed and applied during academic year 2019/20 in response to the coronavirus pandemic. These records are campus specific and should be read in conjunction with all other content on this page.
Covid-19 UG Classification Exceptional Regulations - UNUK
Covid-19 UG Classification Exceptional Regulations - UNNC
Covid-19 UG Classification Exceptional Regulations - UNM
Covid-19 PGT Classification Exceptional Regulations - UNUK
Covid-19 PGT Classification Exceptional Regulations - UNNC
Covid-19 PGT Classification Exceptional Regulations - UNM
The active application of these arrangements then ceased at the beginning of academic year 2020/21. Any outcomes from their application during academic year 2019/20 will, however, continue to be honoured and used in all decisions regarding those affected.
For more information about the Exceptional Regulations as a whole, please consult the following:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - 2019/20 - 2020/21
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
08 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-mres-jun20.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Medicine
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (Mres) for the School of Medicine from September 2019, including admissions, examination and award of degree information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Medicine - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Medicine
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (Mres) for the School of Medicine from September 2019, including admissions, examination and award of degree information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview and regulations
The regulations for the MRes portfolio in Medicine are those which govern the University of Nottingham MRes available here:
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) from September 2019
Except where the following sections modify or supplement them
Admissions requirement
1.
Requirements for admission to a research degree are set out in the University of Nottingham’s Quality Manual in the section entitled Admissions. For more information, please consult the following:
Admissions
Programme of study
2.
Students will be admitted to a one year, full-time (two years, part-time) programme of study.
Taught and thesis elements
3.
Students are required to study modules worth 180 credits, of which 20 credits must be obtained from taught modules at Level 4 or from the Research Training Programme run by the Graduate School or other units offering generic training within the University, or from within any other generic training courses run within individual Schools. The remaining 160 credits must be obtained from a thesis module at Level 4. Any taught modules and research training taken must be clearly cognate with the student’s research topic. Supervision while undertaking the thesis module will be as set out in the module specification and in line with the requirements for supervision contained in the regulations for research degrees.
4.
The University’s Quality and Standards Committee has approved a variation in the number or taught credits required for this programme, as permitted under Regulation 4. of the University’s Regulations for the degree of Master of Research (MRes).
Transfer to PhD
5.
A candidate shall not be permitted to count the same period of research for both the degree of Master of Research (MRes) and the degree of PhD.  However a candidate for the MRes degree may, after a period of not less than nine months study for the MRes and prior to the submission of the thesis, with the approval of the supervisor and Head of School (or equivalent), submit an application to the University for permission to be registered as a candidate for the degree of PhD instead of a Master of Research.  The period of registration for the degree of PhD should normally be three years (and not less than two years) full-time from the initial date of registration for the MRes.
Assessment
Includes:
module specifications; submitting thesis before end of registered study; viva voce examinations
6.
The assessment of all modules is as set out in the specifications for those modules. In regard to the thesis module, the maximum word length of the thesis is 35,000 words. The maximum word limit is inclusive of appendices, footnotes, tables but not the bibliography. The Thesis should embody the result of the candidate’s advanced study and research.
7.
Students are required to submit their thesis prior to the end of the period of registered study. Two copies of the thesis should be submitted to Student Services or equivalent (in a form prescribed by the University), who will forward the thesis to the Examiners. The thesis should not, whether in the same or a different form, have been submitted to this or any other University for the award of any degree.
8.
The thesis must be the result of the student’s own work. The requirement does not preclude a student obtaining limited assistance with proof-reading and with the routine collection and/or processing of data under guidelines and instructions clearly devised by the student. When such help is obtained it should be with the prior approval of the supervisor who must be satisfied that the spirit of the 'own work' requirement is not breached.
9.
The thesis is examined by both an External Examiner and an Internal Examiner appointed under the regulations governing the assessment of research degrees, who should provide independent reports on the thesis, indicating whether the thesis module has been passed; and also whether a viva voce examination is necessary. Where a viva voce examination is required by the examiners, this should be conducted in line with the relevant regulations for MPhil degrees.
For more information about the Viva voce examinations, please consult the following:
Viva voce examinations
Outcomes of examination
Includes:
award of degree; where a student obtains a fail mark or failed thesis or training credits; nottingham etheses service
10.
The degree is awarded where all taught modules and training credits and the thesis module have been passed. The pass mark for all taught modules is 50%. Training credits will be assessed on a pass/fail basis.
11.
Where a student obtains a fail mark in a taught module, or fails the thesis module or training credits, the student has one further opportunity to pass those modules. All reassessments must be completed within one year of the end of the student's period of registered study.
12.
The qualification awarded to the student will include the subject of study undertaken as notified to the student at the time of admission
13.
Successful candidates will be eligible to graduate once their thesis has been uploaded to the University’s eTheses service and approved by the Internal Examiner or, in cases where there are two external examiners, the lead External Examiner. For more information, please consult the following:
Nottingham eTheses
Students from countries that are not familiar with the MRes qualification may, alternatively, be awarded a MA or MSc by Research in order not to disadvantage those students.  The regulations for these awards will, though, be exactly the same as for the MRes. This will also be permitted, with QSC approval, where required by professional, regulatory or accrediting bodies.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-regs-mres-presept19.aspx
Header: Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2019
Intro: This page contains the regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2019. Its content is only applicable to students who commenced their studies before that date but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2019 - The University of NottinghamRegulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2019
This page contains the regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2019. Its content is only applicable to students who commenced their studies before that date but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
These regulations are applicable to students starting programmes in or after September 2018. For students commencing their programmes in or after September 2018. For students commencing their programmes before this date, the Master of Research Regulations (pre-September 2018) will apply.
For more information about the previous regulations, please consult the following:
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2018
Admissions requirements
1.
Requirements for admission to a research degree are set out in the Academic entry requirements page, which can be found here:
Academic entry requirements
Course of study
Includes:
supervisors; criteria for a candidate for the degree of Masters of Research
2.
Every candidate for the degree of Master of Research shall be allocated to a supervisor, or supervisors, by the University, on the recommendation of the Head of School. It shall be the general duty of the Head of School to ensure that adequate supervision is provided for all candidates during their period of directed study for the degree. This shall not detract from the duty of all supervisors to supervise adequately all students allocated to them.
3.
The supervisor will normally be the person directly responsible for the project component of the course. In addition to supervision of the project the supervisor will also be required to direct the student as to the relevant taught component of the course.
4.
A candidate for the degree of Master of Research must have pursued in this University a full- or part-time course of study comprising a programme of generic training, a research project and, as appropriate, an element of assessed taught modules.
The Master in Research programme must be completed within one year's full-time supervised study or a maximum of four years' part-time supervised study.
Generic training programme
Includes:
completion of generic training equivalent to 20 credits
5.
This component requires the satisfactory completion of generic training equivalent to 20 credits. These credits can be accumulated from courses offered from within the Research Training Programme run by the Graduate School or other units offering generic training within the University, or from within any other generic training courses run within individual Schools. The generic courses will be selected in consultation with the supervisor(s) and should be cognate with the student's research topic. This element of the degree will not be assessed but candidates are required to attend at least 70% of the course(s). The selection of these modules is at the discretion of the student's School. Guidance on the appropriateness of the content of modules is available from the Graduate School.
For more information, please consult the following:
Graduate School
Dissertation and assessed taught elements
6.
In addition to the generic training programme candidates are required to undertake assessed work to the equivalent of 160 credits. These credits can be obtained entirely from a research project in a subject within the scope of the School concerned. The candidate will be required to present a dissertation with a maximum length of 35,000 words (ie inclusive of appendices, footnotes, tables, and bibliography). The dissertation should embody the result of the candidate's advanced study and research. The dissertation must be presented within one year of the start of the course in the case of full-time study or up to four years in the case of part-time study.
7.
A candidate may choose, with the agreement of the supervisor, to take up to 40 credits of taught modules. These must be selected from level 4 level modules (or, exceptionally, level 3) and must be clearly cognate with the student's research topic. In this instance the candidate will be required to take any relevant assessments associated with these modules. At the discretion of the School, when students take taught credits as part of their MRes degree, the word limit for the dissertation can be reduced.
Transfer to PhD
8.
A candidate shall not be permitted to count the same period of research for both the degree of PhD and the degree of MRes. However a candidate for an MRes degree may, after a period of not less than nine months study for the MRes and prior to the submission of the dissertation, with the approval of the supervisor and the Head of School, submit an application to the University for permission to be registered as a candidate for the degree of PhD instead of that of MRes. The period of registration for the degree of PhD should be normally three years (and not less than two years) full-time from the initial date of registration for the MRes.
Examination
Includes:
requirements for after period of directed study; curriculum catalogue page
9.
A candidate for the degree of Master of Research shall be required after the period of directed study:
(a)
To demonstrate to the Examiners through attendance certificates that they have pursued an adequate generic training programme;
(b)
To undertake assessments, as specified in the Catalogue of Modules, for all taught modules for which they have registered;
(c)
To submit a dissertation of a maximum 35,000 words (or equivalent) displaying originality and technical understanding commensurate with the credit weighting of the dissertation;
(d)
To satisfy the Examiners regarding knowledge of the general field of scholarship to which the subject belongs;
(e)
If so required by the Examiners, to attend a viva voce examination held in the University on the subject of their dissertation and the general related field of scholarship.
Award of the degree of Master of Research
Includes:
requirements; successful candidates; nottingham etheses service
10.
Candidates may be awarded the degree of Master of Research (which can be a named route where schools indicate this to Student Services (Academic Processes) if they have:
(a)
Attended an adequate generic training programme, and
(b)
Obtained a pass mark in all taught modules excluding those making up the generic training element of the course. Exceptionally, and at the discretion of the Examiners, a fail mark in one or more of the taught modules may be compensated as long as the candidate has obtained an overall average in the taught modules taken of at least 50% and has no mark below 40%.
(c)
Produced a dissertation which satisfies the Examiners, and
(d)
If required by the Examiners attended a viva voce examination on the subject of their dissertation and satisfied the Examiners therein as well as in the dissertation presented.
11.
Successful candidates will be eligible to graduate once their thesis has been uploaded to the University’s eTheses service and approved by the Internal Examiner or, in cases where there are two external examiners, the lead External Examiner. For more information, please consult the following:
Nottingham eTheses
Failures
12.
Where a student obtains a fail mark in a taught module that is not compensated, or fails the thesis module, the student has one further opportunity to pass those modules. All reassessments must be completed within one year of the end of the student's period of registered study.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-regs-mres-presept18.aspx
Header: Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2018
Intro: This page contains the regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2018. Its content is only applicable to students who commenced their studies before that date but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2018 - The University of NottinghamRegulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2018
This page contains the regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2018. Its content is only applicable to students who commenced their studies before that date but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Admissions requirements
1.
Requirements for admission to a research degree are set out in the University of Nottingham's Quality Manual, which can be found here:
Academic entry requirements
Course of study
Includes:
supervisors; criteria for a candidate for the degree of Masters of Research
2.
Every candidate for the degree of Master of Research shall be allocated to a supervisor, or supervisors, by the University, on the recommendation of the Head of School. It shall be the general duty of the Head of School to ensure that adequate supervision is provided for all candidates during their period of directed study for the degree. This shall not detract from the duty of all supervisors to supervise adequately all students allocated to them.
3.
The supervisor will normally be the person directly responsible for the project component of the course. In addition to supervision of the project the supervisor will also be required to direct the student as to the relevant taught component of the course.
4.
A candidate for the degree of Master of Research must have pursued in this University a full or part-time course of study comprising a programme of generic training, a research project and, as appropriate, an element of assessed taught modules.
The Master in Research programme must be completed within one year's full-time supervised study or a maximum of four years' part-time supervised study.
Generic training programme
5.
This component requires the satisfactory completion of generic training equivalent to 20 credits. These credits can be accumulated from courses offered from within the Research Training Programme run by the Graduate School or other units offering generic training within the University, or from within any other generic training courses run within individual Schools. The generic courses will be selected in consultation with the supervisor(s) and should be cognate with the student's research topic. This element of the degree will not be assessed but candidates are required to attend at least 70% of the course(s). The selection of these modules is at the discretion of the student's School. Guidance on the appropriateness of the content of modules is available from the Graduate School.
Dissertation and assessed taught elements
6.
In addition to the generic training programme candidates are required to undertake assessed work to the equivalent of 160 credits. These credits can be obtained entirely from a research project in a subject within the scope of the School concerned. The candidate will be required to present a dissertation with a maximum length of 35,000 words (ie inclusive of appendices, footnotes, tables, and bibliography). The dissertation should embody the result of the candidate's advanced study and research. The dissertation must be presented within one year of the start of the course in the case of full-time study or up to four years in the case of part-time study.
7.
A candidate may choose, with the agreement of the supervisor, to take up to 40 credits of taught modules. These must be selected from level 4 level modules (or, exceptionally, level 3) and must be clearly cognate with the student's research topic. In this instance the candidate will be required to take any relevant assessments associated with these modules. At the discretion of the School, when students take taught credits as part of their MRes degree, the word limit for the dissertation can be reduced.
Transfer to PhD
8.
A candidate shall not be permitted to count the same period of research for both the degree of PhD and the degree of MRes. However a candidate for an MRes degree may, after a period of not less than nine months study for the MRes and prior to the submission of the dissertation, with the approval of the supervisor and the Head of School, submit an application to the University for permission to be registered as a candidate for the degree of PhD instead of that of MRes. The period of registration for the degree of PhD should be normally three years (and not less than two years) full-time from the initial date of registration for the MRes.
Examination
Includes:
requirements after period of directed study
9.
A candidate for the degree of Master of Research shall be required after the period of directed study:
(a)
To demonstrate to the Examiners through attendance certificates that they have pursued an adequate generic training programme;
(b)
To undertake assessments, as specified in the Catalogue of Modules, for all taught modules for which they have registered;
(c)
To submit a dissertation of a maximum 35,000 words (or equivalent) displaying originality and technical understanding commensurate with the credit weighting of the dissertation;
(d)
To satisfy the Examiners regarding knowledge of the general field of scholarship to which the subject belongs;
(e)
If so required by the Examiners, to attend a viva voce examination held in the University on the subject of their dissertation and the general related field of scholarship.
Award of the degree of Master of Research
Includes:
requirements for award of degree of master of research; successful candidates
10.
Candidates may be awarded the degree of Master of Research (which can be a named route where schools indicate this to Student Services (Academic Processes) if they have:
(a)
Attended an adequate generic training programme, and
(b)
Obtained a pass mark in all taught modules excluding those making up the generic training element of the course. Exceptionally, and at the discretion of the Examiners, a fail mark in one or more of the taught modules may be compensated as long as the candidate has obtained an overall average in the taught modules taken of at least 50% and has no mark below 40%.
(c)
Produced a dissertation which satisfies the Examiners, and
(d)
If required by the Examiners attended a viva voce examination on the subject of his/her dissertation and satisfied the Examiners therein as well as in the dissertation presented.
Schools with appropriate marking criteria available for the use of examiners may ask examiners to consider whether the degree may be awarded with Merit or with Distinction.
11.
Successful candidates will be eligible to graduate once their thesis has been uploaded to the University’s etheses service and approved by the Internal Examiner or, in cases where there are two external examiners, the lead External Examiner.
Nottingham eTheses service
Failures
12.
Where a student obtains a fail mark in a taught module that is not compensated, or fails the thesis module, the student has one further opportunity to pass those modules. A student undertaking reassessment cannot be awarded the degree with Distinction. All reassessments must be completed within one year of the end of the student's period of registered study.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-regs-maresearch-mscresearch-sept18.aspx
Header: Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research) from September 2018
Intro: This page contains the regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research) from September 2018. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research) from September 2018 - The University of NottinghamRegulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research) from September 2018
This page contains the regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research) from September 2018. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
For students commencing their programmes before this date, the MA/MSc by Research Regulations (pre-September 2018) will apply. For more information, please consult the following:
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research) before September 2018
Admissions requirements
1.
Requirements for admission to a research degree are set out in the Entry requirements section, which can be found here:
Entry requirements
Programme of study
2.
Students will be admitted to a one year, full-time (two years, part-time).
Taught and thesis elements
3.
Students are required to study modules worth 180 credits, of which a maximum of 60 credits may be obtained from taught modules at Level 4. The remaining credits (between 120 and 180) must be obtained from a thesis module at Level 4. Any taught modules taken must be clearly cognate with the student’s research topic. Supervision while undertaking the thesis module will be as set out in the module specification and in line with the requirements for supervision as set out in the regulations for research degrees.
Transfer to PhD
Includes:
period of research for the degrees of PhD and MRes
4.
A candidate shall not be permitted to count the same period of research for both the degree of MA or MSc by Research and the degree of PhD. However a candidate for the MA or MSc by Research degree may, after a period of not less than nine months study for the MA or MSc by Research and prior to the submission of the thesis, with the approval of the supervisor and Head of School (or equivalent), submit an application to the University for permission to be registered as a candidate for the degree of PhD instead of a Master by Research. The period of registration for the degree of PhD should normally be three years (and not less than two years) full-time from the initial date of registration for the MA or MSc by Research.
Assessment
Includes:
module specifications; submission of thesis before end of registered study
5.
The assessment of all modules is as set out in the specifications for those modules. In regard to the thesis module, the maximum word length of the thesis is as follows:
Thesis worth 120 credits: Maximum 25,000 words
Thesis worth over 120 credits but less than 180 credits: Maximum 30,000 words
Thesis worth 180 credits: Maximum 40,000 words
The maximum word limits are all inclusive of appendices, footnotes, tables and bibliography.  The Thesis should embody the result of the candidate’s advanced study and research.
6.
Students are required to submit their thesis prior to the end of the period of registered study. Two copies of the thesis should be submitted to Student Services or equivalent (in a form prescribed by the University), who will forward the thesis to the Examiners. The thesis should not, whether in the same or a different form, have been submitted to this or any other University for the award of any degree.
7.
The thesis must be the result of the student’s own work. The requirement does not preclude a student obtaining limited assistance with proof-reading and with the routine collection and/or processing of data under guidelines and instructions clearly devised by the student. When such help is obtained it should be with the prior approval of the supervisor who must be satisfied that the spirit of the 'own work' requirement is not breached.
8.
The thesis is examined by both an External Examiner and an Internal Examiner appointed under the regulations governing the assessment of research degrees, who should provide independent reports on the thesis, indicating whether the thesis module has been passed; and also whether a viva voce examination is necessary. Where a viva voce examination is required, this should be conducted in line with the relevant regulations for MPhil degrees.
Outcomes of examination
Includes:
award of degree; where a student obtains a fail mark or fails the thesis module; nottingham etheses service
9.
The degree is awarded where all taught modules (if any taken) and the thesis module have been passed. The pass mark for the taught modules is 50%, but marks of 40%-49% can be compensated in up to 20 credits if the overall average for the taught modules taken is 50% or over.
10.
Where a student obtains a fail mark in a taught module that is not compensated, or fails the thesis module, the student has one further opportunity to pass those modules. All reassessments must be completed within one year of the end of the student's period of registered study.
11.
The qualification awarded to the student will include the subject of study undertaken as notified to the student at the time of admission.
12.
Successful candidates will be eligible to graduate once their thesis has been uploaded to the University’s etheses service and approved by the Internal Examiner or, in cases where there are two external examiners, the lead External Examiner.
Nottingham eTheses service
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-regs-maresearch-presept18.aspx
Header: Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research) before September 2018
Intro: This page contains the regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and the Degree of Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research before September 2019. Its content is only applicable to students who commenced their studies before that date.
Content:
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research) before September 2018 - The University of NottinghamRegulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research) before September 2018
This page contains the regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and the Degree of Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research before September 2019. Its content is only applicable to students who commenced their studies before that date.Admissions requirements
1.
Requirements for admission to a research degree are set out on the Admissions page, which can be found here:
Admissions
Course of study
Includes:
framework; module requirements
2.
Periods of registration for these degrees and supervision requirements are as set out in the University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (UNQF), which can be found here:
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
3.
Students are required to study modules worth 180 credits, of which a maximum of 60 credits may be obtained from taught modules at Level 4. The remaining credits (between 120 and 180) must be obtained from a thesis module at Level 4.
Assessment
Includes:
module specifications; thesis requirements
4.
The assessment of all modules are as set out in the specifications for those modules. In regard to the thesis module, the maximum word length of the thesis is as follows:
Thesis worth 120 credits: Maximum 25,000 words
Thesis worth over 120 credits but less than 180 credits: Maximum 30,000 words
Thesis worth 180 credits: Maximum 40,000 words
The maximum word limits are all inclusive of appendices, footnotes, tables and bibliography.
5.
Students are required to submit their thesis prior to the end of the period of registered study. Two copies of the thesis should be submitted to a Student Service Centre or equivalent (in a form prescribed by the University), which will forward the thesis to the Examiners. The thesis should not, whether in the same or a different form, have been submitted to this or any other University for the award of any degree.
6.
The thesis must be the result of the student’s own work. The requirement does not preclude a student obtaining limited assistance with proof-reading and with the routine collection and/or processing of data under guidelines and instructions clearly devised by the student. When such help is obtained it should be with the prior approval of the supervisor who must be satisfied that the spirit of the 'own work' requirement is not breached.
7.
The thesis is examined by both an External Examiner and an Internal Examiner who should provide independent reports on the thesis, indicating whether the thesis module has been passed and whether the thesis demonstrates exceptional performance; and also whether a viva voce examination is necessary. Where a viva voce examination is required, this should be conducted in line with the relevant regulations for MPhil degrees.
Outcomes of examination
Includes:
distinction; merit; where a student obtains a fail mark or fails thesis; nottingham etheses service
8.
The degree is awarded where all taught modules (if any taken) and the thesis module have been passed. The pass mark for the taught modules is 50%, but marks of 40%-49% can be compensated at the discretion of the student's School if the overall average for the taught modules is 50% or over.
9.
The degree is awarded with distinction if:
(a)
The overall average for the taught modules (if any are taken) is 70% or over, and
(b)
The Examiners state that the thesis demonstrates exceptional performance.
10.
The degree is awarded with merit if:
(a)
The overall average for the taught modules (if any are taken) is 60% or over, and
(b)
The Examiners state that the thesis demonstrates a high level of performance.
11.
Where a student obtains a fail mark in a taught module that is not compensated, or fails the thesis module, the student has one further opportunity to pass those modules. A student undertaking reassessment cannot be awarded the degree with distinction. All reassessments must be completed within one year of the end of the student's period of registered study.
12.
The qualification awarded to the student will include the subject of study undertaken as notified to the student at the time of admission.
13.
Successful candidates will be eligible to graduate once their thesis has been uploaded to the University’s eTheses service and approved by the Internal Examiner or, in cases where there are two external examiners, the lead External Examiner.
Nottingham eTheses service
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-regs-maresearch-mscresearch-2yrft-4yrpt.aspx
Header: Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research), two years full-time / four years part-time
Intro: This page contains the regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and the Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research), 2 years full-time / 4 years part-time. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research), two years full-time / four years part-time - The University of NottinghamRegulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research), two years full-time / four years part-time
This page contains the regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and the Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research), 2 years full-time / 4 years part-time. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Admissions requirements
Includes:
programme of study
1.
Requirements for admission to a research degree are set out in the Entry requirements section, which can be found here:
Entry requirements
Programme of Study
2.
Students will be admitted to a 2 year, full-time or 4 years, part-time.
Taught and thesis elements
3.
Students are required to study modules worth 240 credits, of which a maximum of 60 credits may be obtained from taught modules at Level 4. The remaining credits (between 180 and 240) must be obtained from a thesis module at Level 4. Any taught modules taken must be clearly cognate with the student’s research topic. Supervision while undertaking the thesis module will be as set out in the module specification and in line with the requirements for supervision as set out in the regulations for research degrees.
Transfer to PhD
Includes:
period of research for both degrees of PhD and MRes
4.
A candidate shall not be permitted to count the same period of research for both the degree of MA or MSc by Research and the degree of PhD. However a candidate for the MA or MSc by Research degree may, after a period of not less than 9 months study for the MA or MSc by Research and prior to the submission of the thesis, with the approval of the supervisor and Head of School or equivalent, submit an application to the University for permission to be registered as a candidate for the degree of PhD instead of a Master by Research. The period of registration for the degree of PhD should normally be 3 years (and not less than 2 years) full-time from the initial date of registration for the MA or MSc by Research.
Assessment
Includes:
module specifications; submission of thesis before end of registered study
5.
The assessment of all modules is as set out in the specifications for those modules. In regard to the thesis module, the maximum word length of the thesis is as follows:
Thesis worth 180 credits: maximum 40,000 words
Thesis worth 240 credits: maximum 50,000 words
The maximum word limits are inclusive of appendices, footnotes, tables and bibliography. The thesis should embody the result of the candidate’s advanced study and research.
6.
Students are required to submit their thesis prior to the end of the period of registered study. Two copies of the thesis should be submitted to Student Services or equivalent in a form prescribed by the University, who will forward the thesis to the Examiners. The thesis should not, whether in the same or a different form, have been submitted to this or any other University for the award of any degree.
7.
The thesis must be the result of the student’s own work. The requirement does not preclude a student obtaining limited assistance with proof-reading and with the routine collection and/or processing of data under guidelines and instructions clearly devised by the student. When such help is obtained it should be with the prior approval of the supervisor who must be satisfied that the spirit of the 'own work' requirement is not breached.
8.
The thesis is examined by both an External Examiner and an Internal Examiner appointed under the regulations governing the assessment of research degrees, who should provide independent reports on the thesis, indicating whether the thesis module has been passed; and also whether a viva voce examination is necessary. Where a viva voce examination is required, this should be conducted in line with the relevant regulations for MPhil degrees.
Outcomes of examination
Includes:
award of degree; Nottingham eTheses service
9.
The degree is awarded where all taught modules (if any taken) and the thesis module have been passed. The pass mark for the taught modules is 50%, but marks of 40%-49% can be compensated in up to 20 credits if the overall average for the taught modules is 50% or over.
10.
Where a student obtains a fail mark in a taught module that is not compensated, or fails the thesis module, the student has one further opportunity to pass those modules. All reassessments must be completed within one year of the end of the student's period of registered study.
11.
The qualification awarded to the student will include the subject of study undertaken as notified to the student at the time of admission.
12.
Successful candidates will be eligible to graduate once their thesis has been uploaded to the University’s eTheses service and approved by the Internal Examiner or, in cases where there are two External Examiners, the lead External Examiner.
Nottingham eTheses service
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-regs-for-subject-spec-masters.aspx
Header: Regulations for Subject Specific Masters by Research Degrees
Intro: This page contains information on the regulations for Subject Specific Masters by Research Degrees, including Arts, Humanities and Languages subjects. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Regulations for Subject Specific Masters by Research Degrees - The University of NottinghamRegulations for Subject Specific Masters by Research Degrees
This page contains information on the regulations for Subject Specific Masters by Research Degrees, including Arts, Humanities and Languages subjects. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Supplementary Regulations governing the degree of Master of Arts (MA) in European Integration (by research)
1.
These regulations shall be subject to, and shall be read in the light of, the University regulations for Taught Postgraduate Degrees, Diplomas and Certificates.
2.
The University offers a course of advanced study leading to the degree of MA by Research in European Integration.
3.
Candidates for admission will normally be expected to hold a good Second Class honours degree, or an equivalent qualification. Exceptionally, other persons may be admitted who are not graduates of an approved University on the basis of professional qualifications or experience. In such cases admission will be by approval by the Senate on recommendation of the Humanities Academic Board.
4.
Candidates for whom English is not the first language will normally hold an appropriate qualification in English Language (TOEFL 600 or equivalent) and may be required to attend and pass specified English Language courses offered by the University prior to entry.
5.
The course of study will be for 12 months (full-time), or twenty-four months (part-time), starting in October each year. The taught component of the course will last two semesters (full-time) or four semesters (part-time). A dissertation of 25,000 words will also be completed.
6.
The Masters course will normally consist of 3 taught modules and a dissertation. Of the taught modules, 3 (worth 60 credits) will be compulsory.
Candidates must accumulate 180 credits with a credit-weighted average module score equal to or greater than 50 percent including a dissertation module score equal to or greater than 50 percent. With the exception of the dissertation module, modules scored between 40 percent and 49 percent (inclusive of the end points) may count toward the accumulation of credits and be included in the credit-weighted average. Modules scored at less than 40 percent may not count toward the accumulation of credits.
Candidates must accumulate 60 credits over the Autumn semester. During the Spring and Summer periods, students are required to research and write a dissertation of approximately 25,000 words on a topic from within the field of European integration. Research supervision will be provided by appropriate members of staff in the School of Politics.
7.
Candidates registered for the MA by Research who have achieved 50 percent or more in coursework, essays and the dissertation will be awarded the MA by Research degree. Candidates registered for the MA by Research who have achieved 70 percent or more in coursework, essays and the dissertation will be awarded the MA by Research degree with distinction.
8.
Candidates who fail to satisfy the Examiners may be re-examined on such terms as the Senate thinks fit
Supplementary Regulations governing the degree of Master of Arts in German (by research)
1.
The Department of German offers a full-time course of directed study of one academic year's duration or a part-time course of two years, leading to the degree of Master of Arts in German (by research). The course is intended both as an independent entity and as an introduction to research methods which will serve as the basis for progression to postgraduate degrees by research at the University of Nottingham or elsewhere.
The course weight is equivalent to 180 credits.
2.
Candidates for admission should normally hold a First Class or Upper Second Class Single or Joint Honours degree in German.
3.
The course will have two elements:
(a)
A course in research methodology, covering such topics as library skills, the compilation of bibliographies, word-processing, presentation and referencing.
(b)
A course of guided reading in an agreed field of German studies. Two 5,000 word essays and one 20,000 word dissertation will be written under the supervision of an appropriate member of the academic staff. Although separate, the essays will be planned to lead up to and into the dissertation.
4.
Assessment will be based on three components:
(a)
A skills project (10%)
(b)
Two essays of 5,000 words each (40%)
(c)
A dissertation (50%)
At the discretion of the examiners candidates may be required to attend a viva voce examination.
The two coursework essays and the skills project must be completed by the end of the second semester of study. Full-time candidates must submit the dissertation by 1 October at the end of their period of study. Part-time candidates may submit the dissertation by 1 May of their second year if they wish to graduate in the summer, or not later than 1 October if they wish to graduate in December.
5.
Candidates who fail to satisfy the examiners may be re-assessed on such terms as Senate thinks fit.
6.
A mark of distinction may be awarded to candidates who exhibit exceptional merit in all aspects of the course.
Supplementary Regulations governing the degree of Master of Arts (MA) in Greek and Roman Studies (by research)
Course Director: Head of Department of Classics or nominee
1.
These Regulations shall be subject to, and shall be read in the light of, the University Regulations for Taught Postgraduate Degrees, Diplomas and Certificates.
Admission
2.
Applicants should normally hold a First or Upper Second class BA degree (Single or Joint Honours), or equivalent, in Ancient History, Classical Civilisation, Classics or cognate disciplines which provides sufficient background for the course.
Course of study
3.
i)
Candidates are required to follow a prescribed course of either 12 months full-time study, or not less than 24 and not more than 48 months part-time study.
ii)
The course will consist of one taught module (Level D: 60 credits) and a research project leading to a dissertation (Level D module: 120 credits). In the case of full-time students, the taught module will be taken in the Autumn semester and the research project in the Spring semester and Summer period. In the case of part-time students, the taught module will normally be taken over the first year of the course and the research project over the second year. The modules offered will be as advertised in the Catalogue of Modules for the relevant year.
Assessment
4.
The assessment for each module will be determined by the Module Convenor, and specified in the Module Catalogue.
Candidates may be required to undergo a viva voce examination to the satisfaction of the Examiners.
Progression
5.
Candidates must pass the taught element before proceeding to the writing of their dissertation.
Compensation
6.
The pass-mark for all elements of assessment is 50%. Candidates who fail to achieve the pass-mark in any element of the taught module may, at the discretion of the Examiners, be deemed to have passed the module if they
(i)
have no mark less than 40% and
(ii)
achieve an average of 50% or more for the module.
A fail mark in the dissertation cannot be compensated.
Reassessment
7.
Students who achieve an overall average of less than 50% in the taught module will be reassessed in elements in which they failed to achieve 50%. Coursework essays will be resubmitted at a date to be determined by the Examiners and not later than 1st May of the year following first submission. Candidates whose dissertation is awarded a mark of less than 50% may resubmit it within 12 calendar months of first submission.
Awards
8.
Candidates who achieve an overall average of 50% for the taught element of the course and who pass the dissertation will be awarded the qualification of MA in Greek and Roman Studies (by research).
9.
Candidates achieving an overall average mark of 70% or more will be awarded the degree of Master with Distinction.
Supplementary Regulations governing the degree of Master of Arts (MA) in Modern Languages (by research)
1.
The Department of Modern Languages and Cultures offers a full-time course of directed study of one academic year’s duration or part-time course of two years, leading to the degree of Master of Arts in Modern Languages (with a specification of the languages studied). The course is intended both as an independent entity and as an introduction to research methods which will serve as the basis for progression to PhD-level research.
The entry requirements for this course are:
2:1 (or international equivalent) in an arts, humanities or social science subject.
For non-native speakers of English IELTS 7.0 (6.5) is also required.
The course weight is equivalent to 180 credits.
The Curriculum
2.
The curriculum will comprise the following:
i)
successful completion of the module R14036 Research Skills in Modern Languages and Intercultural Studies, including attendance at the Tradition of Critique lectures. The module mark does not count towards the degree classification.
ii)
a course of guided reading in agreed fields of study within the Department of Modern Languages and Cultures under the supervision of the appropriate members of staff.
iii)
a dissertation of approximately  35,000 words, deriving from the guided reading and prepared under the supervision of the relevant members of staff.
iv)
attendance at the Modern Languages postgraduate work-in-progress seminars and relevant research seminars in Modern Languages.
The Examination
3.
Candidates will be required:
i)
to take such tests as are deemed necessary to assess competence in research methodology and presentation;
ii)
to submit a dissertation, of between c. 35,000 words;
iii)
to attend a viva voce examination at the discretion of the examiners.
In addition to required reading, satisfactory attendance at supervision meetings is a course requirement.
Full-time candidates must undertake the required tests relating to the course in methodology and presentation at the time specified and must submit their dissertation by 1st October at the end of the year of full-time study.
Part-time candidates must undertake the required tests relating to the course in methodology and presentation at the time specified in their first year of study and must submit their dissertation by 1st October at the end of their second year of part-time study.
4.
Candidates who fail to satisfy the examiners may be re-examined. All reassessments must be completed within one year of the end of the student’s period of registered study.
5.
Students gaining a mark of 60% or above will be awarded an MA with Merit. Students gaining a mark of 70% or above will be awarded an MA with Distinction.
Supplementary Regulations governing the degree of Master of Arts (MA) in Music (by research)
This is a full-time course of directed study of one year's duration, or a part-time course of two year's duration, leading to the degree of Master of Arts in Music (by research). This course is intended both to be self-sufficient and to be an introduction to research methods which will serve as the basis for progression to doctoral degrees at The University of Nottingham or elsewhere. Candidates should normally hold a First Class or 2:1 Class Honours degree in a relevant subject or be able to demonstrate equivalent professional qualifications and/or experience. The course weight is equivalent to 180 credits.
1. Admission
Course Requirements
2:1 in Music or related subject
Including Degree subjects should be relevant to course applied for
International English Language Test (IELT) Requirements  6.5 (no less than 6.0 in any element)
2. The Curriculum
The curriculum will comprise the following:
(i)
One compulsory Departmental Research Techniques course (20 credits)
Alternatively, students may opt to take one of the courses offered by the Faculty of Arts in consultation with the course director:
Arts in Society (20 credits); or
Research Methods: The Laboratory of the Arts (20 credits)
(ii)
Two compulsory departmental courses (20 credits each) entitled “Specialised Studies 1” and “Specialised Studies 2”, conducted via seminar work or independent study, as agreed with the Director of Postgraduate Studies and individual supervisor(s)
(iii)
Candidates will produce a research project (120 credits), under the supervision of appropriate member(s) of academic staff on a topic approved by the Director of Postgraduate Studies. Musicology: Dissertation of 25,000 words worth 100%. Performance: Recital of 50-60 minutes, and Lecture-recital of 30 minutes with submitted script, weighted 70 / 30%. Music Technology: Recorded Project of 60-70 minutes plus written document of 5,000 words, weighted 80 / 20%. Composition: Portfolio of at least 30 minutes’ duration, plus written commentary of 5,000 words, weighted 80 / 20%. Specific Music Marking Criteria will be used for assessment.
(iv)
The Graduate School provides a wide range of short courses that are designed to teach generic research skills. Students will have access to courses on topics such as planning research and time management, introduction to library skills and presentation skills.
(v)
Students are expected to attend the Department’s research events, including regular colloquia with guest speakers.
3. Assessment
The assessment for each course will be determined by the Course Convenor and specified in the Course Catalogue.
Candidates must achieve a pass mark (50%) on assessment for all taught elements of the degree. Candidates who fail to satisfy the examiners will be offered one further opportunity to do so by re-submitting assessed work.
To proceed to the 120-credit research project, candidates must achieve a pass mark on assessment for the School of Humanities Research Skills course.
Full-time candidates must undertake the required assessment for taught modules at the time specified and must submit their special project by 30th September at the end of their first year of full-time study. Part-time candidates are normally required to sit and undertake required assessment for taught modules during the first year of study and submit research projects by the end of the second year of part-time study. However, alternative programmes of study may, under certain circumstances, be agreed by the Course Director. The maximum time allowed for the completion of the degree on a part-time basis is three years.
4. Extensions
In the event that a candidate fails to satisfy the examiners on taught modules, and is therefore taking re-assessments, the research project deadline may be extended. The research project deadline may also be extended in other circumstances. An extension request form must be completed and submitted to the Academic Services Division. For more information, please consult the Progression section:
Progression
In both instances, written support from the candidate's supervisor(s) and medical certificates, where appropriate, will be required.
5. Award of the degree of Master of Arts by Research
Candidates may be awarded the degree of Master of Arts in Music by Research if:
They have achieved a mark of 50% or above on assessment for all taught elements of the degree; and
They have been deemed by both the Internal Examiner and an External Examiner to have presented a research project of an appropriate standard.
Should the research project fail to satisfy the examiners, candidates may, at the examiners' discretion, be permitted to:
Complete minor corrections within one month
Resubmit the research project within three months of receipt of the fail mark.
A mark of Merit will be awarded to candidates with marks in the range 60% to 69%, and Distinction to candidates with marks of 70% or over. Examiners may award Merit or Distinction purely on the basis of the thesis, as long as the taught modules have been passed.
6. Upgrade to PhD Programme
In the event that the student intends to pursue a PhD after their MA year the option is available for transferring their registration, subject to a successful upgrading review. In this case students will submit a portfolio of work including a 15,000 word extract from their MA dissertation or equivalent demonstration of practice-based research as agreed with the Director of Postgraduate Studies, a plan of research of approximately 2,500 words, and course results by 15th August. This will be examined by a viva voce held in the first week of September by a review panel consisting of two members of academic or research staff from the Department appointed by the Director of Postgraduate Studies.
The plan of research should cover the following: title, main aims, specific objectives, research methods, literature review, summary of chapter contents, indicative bibliography/sources.
Should the student successfully clear the review process he/she will be transferred to the second year of the PhD programme at the end of September and will not be formally examined on the MA dissertation. In the event that the review panel rejects the application for PhD upgrade the student will have the option of submitting a completed MA dissertation by 1st October for assessment under normal procedures (see section 2 The Curriculum above). This allows the student the possibility of graduating with an MA degree.
Regulations for the degree of Master of Arts (MA) Philosophy (by research)
Course director: Head of Department of Philosophy or nominee
1
These Regulations shall be subject to, and shall be read in the light of, the University Regulations for Taught Postgraduate Degrees, Diplomas and Certificates.
Admission
2
Applicants should normally hold a First or Upper Second class BA degree (Single or Joint Honours), or equivalent, in Philosophy or cognate disciplines which provides sufficient background for the course.
Course of study
3
Length
i)
The teaching-year will run from the beginning of the Autumn semester to the end of the Spring semester. The Summer period will run from the end of the Spring semester until 30th September of the same year.
ii)
Candidates are required to follow a prescribed course of study of:
Either
12 months' full time study; Or not less than 24 and not more than 48 months' part time study.
Structure
i)
The course of study will comprise a taught element and a dissertation.The taught element will comprise two Level D modules worth 30 credits each. The taught module will be taken in the Autumn semester. The dissertation will be completed during the Spring semester and in the Summer period.
ii)
The modules offered will be as advertised in the Postgraduate Catalogue of Modules for the relevant year.
iii)
Full-time students will normally take the two 30 credit modules during the Autumn semester, and will normally be assessed at the end of that semester according to assessment procedures detailed in the Postgraduate Catalogue of Modules for each module taken. Full-time candidates will write their dissertation during the Spring semester and Summer period and submit it by 1st October of their year of registration.
iv)
Part-time candidates will normally take the single 60-credit taught module during the Autumn semester of their first year of registration, and will be assessed at the end of the following Spring semester according to assessment procedures detailed in the Postgraduate Catalogue of Modules for that module. Part-time candidates must complete the taught element of their course before proceeding to their writing of their dissertation. They will normally be expected to submit their dissertation by 1st October following their second year of registration.
Assessment
4
Assessment will consist of:
i)
Compulsory modules: normally 100% coursework.
ii)
A dissertation of c. 20,000 words.
iii)
If required by the examiners, a viva voce examination.
Progression
5
Students must complete the taught element of the course before proceeding to the writing of their dissertation.
Compensation
6
The pass-mark for all elements of assessment is 50%. Candidates who fail to achieve the pass-mark in any element of their taught module may, at the discretion of the examiners, be deemed to have passed the module if:
(i)
they have no essay-mark less than 40%, and
(ii)
if they achieve an overall average of 50% or more for the module.
A fail mark in the dissertation cannot be compensated.
Reassessment
7
Students who achieve an overall average of less than 50% on the taught module will be reassessed in elements in which they failed to achieve 50%. Coursework essays will be resubmitted at a date to be determined by the examiners and not later than 1st May of the year following first submission. Candidates whose dissertation is awarded a mark of less than 50% may resubmit it within 12 calendar months of first submission.
Awards
8
Candidates who achieve an overall average of 50% for the taught element of the course and who pass the dissertation will be awarded the qualification of MA in Philosophy (by research).
9
Candidates achieving an overall average mark of 70% or more will be awarded the degree of Master of Arts with Distinction.
10
No Postgraduate Diploma is offered.
Regulations for the degree of Master of Arts (MA) in Slavonic Studies (by research)
1.
The Department of Russian and Slavonic Studies offers a full-time course of directed study of one academic year's duration or part-time course of two year's duration leading to the degree of Master of Arts in Slavonic Studies. Candidates should normally hold a First Class or Upper Second Class Honours degree in Russian or other Slavonic Language.
The course weight is equivalent to 180 credits.
The Curriculum
2.
The curriculum will comprise the following:
i)
a course in research methodology and presentation;
ii)
a course or courses of guided reading in an agreed field of Slavonic Studies or agreed fields of Slavonic Studies, leading to the preparation of a dissertation under the supervision of the appropriate member(s) of academic staff on an agreed topic.
The Examination
3
Candidates will be required:
i)
to take such tests as are deemed necessary to assess competence in research methodology and presentation;
ii)
to submit a dissertation, of between 30,000 words and 40,000 words;
iii)
to attend a viva voce examination at the discretion of the examiners.
In addition to required reading, satisfactory attendance at supervision meetings is a course requirement. Full-time candidates must undertake the required tests relating to the course in methodology and presentation at the time specified and must submit their dissertation by 1st October at the end of the year of full-time study. Part-time candidates must undertake the required tests relating to the course in methodology and presentation at the time specified in their first year of study and must submit their dissertation by 1st October at the end of their second year of part-time study.
4.
Candidates who fail to satisfy the examiners may be re-examined in the following year on such terms as Senate thinks fit.
5.
A mark of distinction may be awarded by the examiners on the basis of exceptional performance.
Supplementary Regulations governing the degree of Master of Arts (MA) in Science in Society (by research and thesis)
This is a full-time course of directed study of one year's duration, or a part-time course of two year's duration, leading to the degree of Master of Arts in Science and Society (by research and thesis). This course is intended both to be self-sufficient and to be an introduction to research methods which will serve as the basis for progression to postgraduate degrees by research at The University of Nottingham or elsewhere. Candidates should normally hold a First Class or Second Class Honours degree in a relevant Natural or Social Science subject or an equivalent professional qualification. The course weight is equivalent to 180 credits.
1. The Curriculum
The curriculum will comprise the following:
(i)
three modules in research methodology as indicated below:
Table of research methodology modules
Module Title
Credits
Research Design and Practice
10
Quantitative Methods
20
Qualitative Research: Issues and Methods
10
(ii)
Plus 10 credits from the following:
Table of additional modules 1
Module Title
Credits
Philosophy of the Social Sciences
10
Order: Power: Meaning: An introduction to theory in the Social Sciences and Humanities
10
(iii)
Plus 10 credits from the following:
Table of additional modules 2
Module Title
Credits
Genetics and Society
10
Exploring Science and Technology in Society
10
(iv)
candidates will produce a research thesis (120 credits), under the supervision of appropriate member(s) of academic staff on a topic approved by the course director. They are required to attend at least 10 supervision sessions.
(v)
The Graduate School provides a wide range of short courses that are designed to teach generic research skills which are highly relevant to their studies. Students are normally expected to take the following modules:
Table of short course modules
Title
Contact Hours
Planning Research and Time Management
3 ½
Introduction to Library Skills
3
Presentation Skills for Postgraduates in the Humanities
11
Pathways on-line
N/A
2. Assessment
Taught modules will be assessed by a combination of class and seminar participation, project work, extended essay and/or formal examination as appropriate to the subject matter. Graduate School modules are not formally assessed but you will be required to submit evidence of attendance.
Candidates for the degree of MART must achieve a pass mark (50%) on assessment for all taught elements of the degree. Candidates who fail to satisfy the examiners will be offered one further opportunity to do so by re-submitting assessed work.
To proceed to the research thesis, candidates must achieve a pass mark on assessment for the Research Thesis Proposal module.
Candidates for the degree of MART will be required to submit a satisfactory research thesis of 20,000 (minimum) to 25,000 words (maximum) words on an approved topic. Candidates may be required to attend a viva voce examination at the discretion of the examiners.
Full-time candidates must undertake the required assessment for taught modules at the time specified and must submit their research thesis by 30th September at the end of their first year of full-time study. Part-time candidates are normally required to sit and undertake required assessment for taught modules during the first year of study, and submit research theses by the end of the second year of part-time study. However, alternative programmes of study may, under certain circumstances, be agreed by the Course Director. The maximum time allowed for the completion of the degree on a part-time basis is three years.
3. Extensions
In the event that a candidate fails to satisfy the examiners on taught modules, and is therefore taking re-assessments, the research thesis deadline may be extended. The research thesis deadline may also be extended in other circumstances. An extension request form must be completed and submitted to the Academic Services Division. For more information, please consult the progression section.
Progression
In both instances, written support from the candidate's supervisor(s) and medical certificates, where appropriate, will be required.
4. Award of the degree of Master of Arts by Research and Thesis
Candidates may be awarded the degree of Master of Arts by Research & Thesis (Science in Society) if:
They have achieved a mark of 50% or above on assessment for all taught elements of the degree; and
They have been deemed by both the Internal Examiner and an External Examiner to have presented a research thesis of an appropriate standard.
External examiners will be appointed for each candidate on an individual basis.
Should the research thesis fail to satisfy the examiners, candidates may, at the examiners' discretion, be permitted to:
Complete minor corrections within one month
Resubmit the research thesis within three months of receipt of the fail mark.
A mark of distinction may be awarded by the examiners on the basis of exceptional performance in the research thesis.
5. Upgrade to PhD Programme
In the event that the student intends to pursue a PhD after their MA year the option is available for transferring their registration, subject to a successful upgrading review. In this case students will submit a portfolio of work including a 15,000 word extract from their MA dissertation, a plan of research of about 2,500 words, and module results by 15th August. This will be examined by a viva voce held in the first week of September by a review panel consisting of two members of academic or research staff from the Institute or partner Schools appointed by the Director of Research Students.
The plan of research should cover the following:
i.
A statement of research questions for the proposed PhD thesis, and how these have developed over the course of the research.
ii.
An account of progress in respect of empirical work, if any (access negotiations, interviews, documents gathered, data analysis etc).
iii.
A brief discussion of your proposed chapter structure and its rationale.
Should the student successfully clear the review process he/she will be transferred to the PhD programme at the end of September and will not be formally examined on the MA dissertation. In the event that the review panel rejects the application for PhD upgrade the student will have the option of submitting a completed MA dissertation by 1st October for assessment under normal procedures (see section 2 above). This allows the student the possibility of graduating from IGBiS with an MA degree.
Supplementary Regulations governing the degree of Master of Arts (MA) in Theology and Religious Studies (by research)
1.
The Department of Theology offer a full-time course of directed study of one academic year's duration or a part-time course of two to four year's duration leading to the degree of Master of Arts in Theology and Religious Studies.
2.
Candidates should normally hold a First Class or Upper Second Class Honours degree in Theology and Religious Studies.
3.
The course weight is equivalent to 180 credits.
4.
The course will comprise the following:
i)
A course in research methodology and presentation;
ii)
A course of guided reading in an agreed field of study leading to the preparation of a dissertation under the supervision of the appropriate member(s) of staff on an agreed topic.
5.
Candidates will be required:
i)
To undertake training as deemed necessary in research methodology and presentation;
ii)
To submit a dissertation of between 30,000 and 35,000 words.
At the discretion of the examiners, candidates may be required to attend a viva voce examination. Full-time candidates must undertake the required tests and submit their dissertation by 1st October at the end of the year of full-time study. Part-time candidates must undertake the required tests at the time specified in their first year of study and must submit their dissertation by 1st October at the end of their second year of part-time study.
6.
Candidates who fail to satisfy the examiners may be re-examined in the following year on such terms as Senate thinks fit.
7.
A mark of distinction may be awarded by the examiners on the basis of exceptional performance.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/school-examination-boards.aspx
Header: School Examination Board
Intro: This page provides information on the membership of a School Examination Board, their power and responsibilities, default agenda, records and the Chair's action. This may be useful for staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
School Examination Board - The University of NottinghamSchool Examination Board
This page provides information on the membership of a School Examination Board, their power and responsibilities, default agenda, records and the Chair's action. This may be useful for staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Membership
Includes:
eligibility; involvement of the international campuses; responsibilities of the Head of School
The chair is the Head of School or their nominee. Other eligible members are module convenors and module tutors. The external examiner(s) shall normally be present at any meeting of the Board at which recommendations are made for the award of degrees, diplomas or certificates. When, exceptionally and for good reason, this is not possible, the external examiner's absence must be approved by the Chair. Under such circumstances, the Chair shall ensure that the external has been fully involved in agreeing marks and that there is at the meeting a written record of the external's remarks and recommendations on classifications and failures. If absent, the external shall be consulted by telephone or some other effective means about distinction, first class, and failing decisions before the pass list is signed.
Where programmes are offered at the International Campuses, there should be appropriate involvement of International Campus staff in the School Examination Board. This involvement may be through attendance at the Board (whether by video link or in person), or through consultation regarding the information presented to the Board and its decisions.
The Head of School is responsible for ensuring that sufficient internal and external members are present to enable valid decisions to be taken.
Powers and responsibilities
Includes:
overview; consideration of extenuating circumstances; undergraduate final year candidates; candidates where programme specification states a progression point between taught and dissertation stages; postgraduate taught candidates at the end of programme; reporting outcomes
Overview
The School Examination Board is the mechanism whereby a School makes decisions regarding progression and awards; in particular, it enables the requisite involvement of External Examiners in those decisions.
Where possible, all Examination Boards must be conducted using student IDs and not student names, in order to provide anonymity in the decision making process.
The main business of the Board is:
to receive and confirm the assessment marks for modules taken by candidates following programmes of study for which the Board is responsible
to receive other relevant qualitative information about the circumstances of individual candidates, such as that provided by Extenuating Circumstances forms
to make recommendations regarding the progression status of candidates
to make recommendations regarding the awards, including classifications, to be made to candidates
The Board is responsible for confirming marks in School modules taken by students who are following courses of study in other Schools, including exchange students. For Joint Honours programmes, the lead School is responsible for ensuring that its Examination Board is held at a time which will allow all information and marks to be available from the partner School, even if the lead School 's Examination Board takes place ahead of that of the partner School. The recommendations for Joint Honours students should then be reported to the partner Schools for information.
This procedure obviates the need for External Examiners from partner Schools to attend the Exam Board of the Lead School where logistical difficulties prevent attendance.
Consideration of extenuating circumstances
With the exception of small Schools/departments where it may not be practicable to do so, extenuating circumstances should normally be considered at a sub-committee/meeting which will make recommendations to the School/Department Examination Board.  The group considering the extenuating circumstances claim should assess the validity of each claim and recommend an outcome in line with the Extenuating Circumstances Policy such that the full School Examination Board can make a final decision.  Full records of the sub-committee/meeting should be kept by the School/Department and a brief summary of circumstances presented to the School Examination Board.  The full details of circumstances should remain confidential to the sub-committee/meeting and should only be discussed at the full meeting of the School Examination Board if strictly necessary.
A School Board may not alter marks, except in cases where for example a poor question has been included on an examination paper, to compensate for which all the marks for the whole suite of answer papers need to be raised by a certain percentage. In cases where Extenuating Circumstances of individuals are considered, a higher degree class than predicted by the marks profile may be recommended but the candidate's marks should not be changed to facilitate this.
Undergraduate final year candidates
To recommend for formal approval candidates for the award of degrees, diplomas or certificates as appropriate.
To recommend the conditions dependent on circumstances for final year candidates who have failed to satisfy the requirements to obtain an award:
to be reassessed for a Pass degree or an Ordinary degree
if there are sufficient extenuating circumstances, to be further assessed for an Honours degree.
if a candidate has satisfied University regulations for the award of a degree but has failed one or more non-compensatable modules in their final year to be reassessed in such modules in order to gain the required credits.
Undergraduate non-final year candidates and Postgraduate Taught Programme Candidates where the programme specification states that there is a progression point between the taught and dissertation stages
To determine, according to appropriate School supplementary regulations and University regulations:
which students progress to the next stage of their course, either by virtue of passing all modules or through compensation
which students must undertake reassessment in order to progress
which students have been affected by accepted extenuating circumstances in one or more modules, and therefore determine whether they be allowed a first attempt at the assessment of these modules.
In the case of students who have been reassessed, to determine:
which students progress to the next stage of their course, either by virtue of passing all modules or through compensation
which students have been affected by accepted extenuating circumstances in one or more modules, and therefore should be allowed a first attempt at the reassessment of these modules
which students should be allowed a second reassessment
which students should have their courses terminated.
Postgraduate Taught candidates (at end of programme)
To recommend for formal approval candidates for the award of degrees, diplomas or certificates as appropriate.
To determine, according to appropriate School supplementary regulations and University regulations:
which students should be reassessed
which students have been unable affected by acceptable extenuating circumstances in one or more modules, and therefore should be allowed a first attempt at the assessment of these modules
which students should be allowed a second reassessment
which students should have their courses terminated.
Reporting of outcomes
Recommendations that fall within the remit of the School Examination Board are reported to Student Service Development (Academic Processes) or equivalent for action. Recommendations for awards outside the borderlines or notwithstanding the regulations should be referred to Student Service Development (Academic Processes) for approval by the Quality and Standards Committee (QSC).
Default agenda
The default agenda is not exclusive and further items should be added for a particular meeting as Board business requires:
Apologies for absence
Receipt of University and School assessment conventions
Request for anyone who may have a personal interest, involvement or relationship with any of the students being discussed to declare it by leaving the room
External examiners' reports and associated correspondence/action from previous year
Pass and classification lists, with considered cases where claims of extenuation have been made (see "final year students" above)
Progression lists with considered cases where claims of extenuation have been made (see "undergraduate non final year students" above)
Oral review by the external examiner(s)
Review and sign off of marks adjustment report (including nil returns)
Records
Includes:
requirements; conflicts of interest
All Boards of Examiners are required to keep formal minutes of their proceedings, recording results and the reasons for recommendations relating to cases requiring discussion, including consideration of the degree classification of borderline students and reference to any documentary or other evidence as appropriate. Schools will be expected to use these minutes when requested by students to explain decisions made in regard to them.
The Board of Examiners should take care to recognise when one or more of its members have had past dealings with a student that might be construed as giving credence to a charge of prejudice (e.g. involvement in a Fitness to Practise procedure involving that student), and should record carefully in those circumstances that the said member(s) of staff did not have a decisive role in determining the outcome for that student.
Chair's action
In exceptional cases the Chair may act on behalf of the Board and if so doing must ensure that any decisions are in line with decisions taken by the full Board and, if appropriate, have the support of the External Examiner.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/admissions/entry-requirements.aspx
Header: Entry requirements
Intro: This section contains policies and guidance for entry to all taught and research-based programmes at the University. These pages are primarily directed at prospective students but may also be of interest to current students and staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Entry requirements - The University of NottinghamEntry requirements
This section contains policies and guidance for entry to all taught and research-based programmes at the University. These pages are primarily directed at prospective students but may also be of interest to current students and staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Pages within this section
Academic entry requirements
Policy on minimum English language entry requirements
Policy on alternative English language qualifications
Minimum age requirements
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK
Admission queries UNUK
UNNC
Admission queries UNNC
UNM
Admissions queries UNM
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 February 2023||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/concerns-complaints-and-appeals/unm-unnc-student-complaints.aspx
Header: Policy on student complaints (UNM and UNNC)
Intro: This page contains the University's policy on student complaints and related procedures. Its content is applicable to staff and students at the China and Malaysia campuses only. Students who are studying away from their home campus, for example on exchange to another University of Nottingham campus, should refer to the complaints policy and procedure which applies to the campus where the issues they wish to raise have occurred.
Content:
Policy on student complaints (UNM and UNNC) - The University of NottinghamPolicy on student complaints (UNM and UNNC)
This page contains the University's policy on student complaints and related procedures. Its content is applicable to staff and students at the China and Malaysia campuses only. Students who are studying away from their home campus, for example on exchange to another University of Nottingham campus, should refer to the complaints policy and procedure which applies to the campus where the issues they wish to raise have occurred.Definitions
Includes:
complaint; feedback
Complaint
For the purposes of this policy a student complaint, as defined by the Office of Independent Adjudicators (OIA), is "an expression of dissatisfaction by one or more students about a university's action or lack of action, or about the service provided by or on behalf of the university."
Feedback
A student may provide feedback which will be taken into account by a school, department or service when reviewing its policies and operations, without invoking this policy. Students are encouraged to provide feedback to the appropriate school or department representative, Students’ Union, Student Staff Forum (SSF) or service provider in a prompt and constructive manner.
Overview of student complaint procedure
Includes:
Level 1; Level 2; Level 3; opportunity for independent review
There are three Levels to the University complaints procedure:
Level 1 – Local Level (informal resolution). To make a complaint, a student must start at Level 1.
Level 2 – Head of School or Service (or equivalent at University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM) or University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC)) for formal consideration
Level 3 – Faculty Pro Vice Chancellor (PVC) or Registrar (at the UK campus) or Faculty Dean or Director of Academic Services (UNM) or UNNC equivalent for paper-based review.
After the internal University processes have been exhausted, complainants have the opportunity to have their complaint independently reviewed by the Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA).
Who can use the student complaint procedure?
This complaints procedure may only be used by an individual who is, or has been, registered as a student of the University and who is not recorded as being a leaver (or, if they are a leaver, is complaining about events that occurred before they were a leaver, within the permitted timescales). This applies to students at all University of Nottingham campuses.
Applicants wishing to make a complaint should seek information regarding Admissions feedback, appeals and complaints. For more information, please consult the following:
Admissions feedback, appeals and complaints
In addition, please be aware that:
A group of students may use this procedure to make a collective complaint provided that one student identifies themselves as the main contact for purposes of communication and has written consent from others that wish to be named as part of the complaint.
Anyone wishing to make a complaint is encouraged to do so personally. The University policy on Communications with Third Parties is applicable to this policy.
Anonymous complaints will not be considered unless there are exceptional and evidence-based reasons to do so. In many circumstances, raising a concern anonymously could impede the investigation and communication of the outcome.
For more information on communications with third parties, please consult the following:
Policy on communications with Third Parties
For more information about the student complaints procedure, please consult the following Student Services page:
The Student Complaint Procedure
Apprentices should refer to and use the following policy which outlines additional considerations:
Apprentice Complaints Policy
What issues constitute grounds for complaint under this policy?
The subject of the complaint should relate specifically to one or more of the following, or comparable issues:
Failure of the University to meet obligations including those outlined in course and student handbooks.
Misleading or incorrect information in prospectuses or promotional material and other information provided by the University.
Concerns about the delivery of a programme, teaching, supervision or administration – including (where applicable) that provided by a partner institution.
Please note that in the first instance, the student would normally be expected to follow the partner institution's complaints procedures.
Poor quality of facilities, learning resources or services provided directly by the University.
Complaints involving other organisations or contractors providing a service on behalf of the University.
Complaints relating to allegations of bullying, harassment or victimisation by members of staff are associated with the Policy of Dignity within the University and should be addressed to the Director of Human Resources. If the complaint is within the scope of the Policy of Dignity within the University and informal resolution is not appropriate then a formal investigation in accordance with the policy will be undertaken.
For more information about the Policy of Dignity within the University, please consult the following:
Policy of Dignity within the University
Student Services will be informed that a complaint has been made and against whom (no further details will be divulged). Once the Dignity Investigation Procedure has been completed, if the student's allegations are proven, then the student may bring a Level 2 complaint relating to the impact of the behaviour on their course of study within one month of the date of the outcome letter.
If a student’s complaint relates to allegations of bullying, harassment or victimisation by members of staff and to matters which are eligible for consideration under the terms of the policy on student complaints, the University reserves the right to appoint one investigating officer to consider the issues within the parameters of the published procedures for both the Policy of Dignity within the University and the Policy on student complaints.
Complaints about the behaviour of students towards other students are within the scope of the University Code of Discipline for Students. For more information about this code, please consult the following:
Code of Discipline for Students
What issues do not constitute grounds for complaint under this policy?
Includes:
academic appeals; areas with separate complaints procedures
Please be aware of the following:
Challenges to the academic judgement of a member of staff and/or school. The Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA) will not interfere with the operation of a University's academic judgement. Dissatisfaction with a mark and/or the academic judgement of the University is not covered by the University's policies.
Cases where complaints are upheld and there has been a clear impact on an academic outcome may, however, lead to an academic conclusion – for example, allow a student a further attempt at an assessment.
Disagreement with a policy or regulation rather than its application. In this instance, the matter should be raised by the student with the relevant student representative to raise it at the Student Staff Forum (SSF), or another appropriate committee or group.
Non-academic matters raised by students who are studying by collaborative arrangement and who are studying away from the University at partner institutions.
A matter of public interest which may be better suited to the Public Interest Disclosure Code (also known as whistle-blowing). For more information, please consult the following:
Public Interest Disclosure Code
Academic appeals
This also applies to cases that would be better suited to consideration under the Policy on academic appeals, including:
A concern about a decision made by an academic body regarding student progression, academic assessment and award
A concern about a decision made under specific regulations, such as fitness to practise
A concern about a school decision relating to an extenuating circumstances claim on the basis of a procedural irregularity
Policy on academic appeals
Areas with separate complaints procedures
Matter relating to the Student Loans Company (SLC), which has its own policy and procedure.
Complaints about the Students' Union (SU), which has its own policy and procedure.
Complaints relating to applications to the University, which are considered separately.
Admissions feedback, appeals and complaints
Where a student raises issues which do not fall neatly into the category of either complaint or academic appeal, the University will notify the student which specific issues will be considered under which specific procedure and direct the student to the alternative appropriate procedure for the remaining issues.
Principles of this policy
Includes:
Unacceptable Behaviour Policy; quality assurance
All complaints should be treated seriously and students must not suffer any disadvantage or recrimination as a result of making a complaint in good faith. However, it is expected that students or people communicating on behalf of a student will conduct themselves responsibly and treat the process and those members of the University involved in the process with respect at all times.
Where behaviour falls outside of these expectations, the University’s Unacceptable Behaviour Policy will apply. For more information, please consult the following:
Unacceptable Behaviour Policy
In all cases, it is desirable that complaints are resolved informally and quickly between the relevant parties, and that the formal process is started only if that fails. Evidence of an attempt at informal resolution will be required.
In addition, please be aware of the following:
Mediation can be a useful means of resolving matters of complaint where the parties involved are willing to engage voluntarily in the process in an attempt to work things out. The University may make an offer of mediation to students at any stage of the Complaint Procedure.
Complaints must be substantiated with evidence, expressed in clear and succinct English and submitted within prescribed timescales.
Complaints submitted outside of the timescales stipulated in the procedure will only be considered in the most exceptional circumstances and where there is good reason, supported by evidence, for the late submission.
Students are encouraged to seek advice from an Education Adviser in Students' Union Advice or equivalent office University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM) and University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC) at any stage in the process. This includes seeking advice on how to present their case effectively.
The University is committed to ensuring that complaints are handled in accordance with its published procedure. Occasionally, it may be sensible for the University to deviate from procedure if strict adherence to it could give rise to perceptions of prejudice or bias.
The University will not accept or investigate complaints which it considers to be in breach of the standards set out in the Unacceptable Behaviour Policy.
Quality assurance
Complaints form part of the University's process of quality review and improvement and are considered as providing valuable feedback rather than criticism. We will widely publicise information about procedures to students and staff, and all schools and central services are required to provide a link to them through their websites.
Students will be notified early in the process if the remedy sought within the complaint is beyond the power of the University to deliver.
It is important for students to note that:
the Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA) cannot consider matters which are or which have been the subject of court proceedings.
Similarly, the University reserves the right to decline, suspend or to discontinue a complaint under the Student Complaint Procedure, in the event that legal proceedings are commenced and the claim concerns the same subject matter as the complaint.
Recording and monitoring of complaints
It is important that complaints are monitored in order to improve the student experience. The Complaints and Conduct Team will record and provide reports to indicate the nature of complaints and complainants, and resultant action. Such reports will:
Feed into the monitoring and evaluation procedure at various levels: department, school, faculty and University;
Feed directly into appropriate university-wide committees;
Assist in identifying problems and trends across the University;
Form the basis of positive publicity, in demonstrating that identified issues have been resolved;
Be made available to the Students’ Union.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
24 September 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/pol-joint-hons-progs.aspx
Header: Policy on Joint Honours programmes
Intro: This page contains the University's policy on the management of Joint Honours programmes. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Policy on Joint Honours programmes - The University of NottinghamPolicy on Joint Honours programmes
This page contains the University's policy on the management of Joint Honours programmes. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1. Responsibility of Schools operating Joint Honours courses
Includes:
appointment of Joint-Honours Programme Liaison Officer
The Lead School should be responsible for all aspects of the management of a Joint Honours course (although responsibility for certain aspects of the course may be delegated to a partner School with the approval of all parties).
The Lead School should be responsible for ensuring that there are clear procedures for consultation and negotiation with the partner School(s) on matters affecting course structure and assessment.
Every School involved in a Joint Honours programme should have a Joint-Honours Programme Liaison Officer tasked with representing the needs of the Joint-Honours community in that school, and reporting to the School Director of Teaching in that regard.
2. Criteria for determining the degree class of borderline students
In relation to students who entered Qualifying year or Part I before September 2015, all Schools managing Joint Honours programs should strive for as much consistency as possible across degrees, both Single and Joint Honours, with regard to borderline classifications. Where complete consistency is impossible due to diverging expectations or demands of different disciplines, borderline conventions should be agreed in advance between the partner Schools.
Where there is no such agreement between the Schools concerned, the conventions for award which should be applied in the Exam Board Meetings should be those of the Lead School.
The criteria for deciding degree class for borderline Joint Honours candidates should be clearly stated, and the Lead School is responsible for ensuring that they are specified in the relevant Programme Specifications and advertised to students at the start of and during their programme of study (normally in a Student Handbook).
For students entering Qualifying year or Part I from September 2015 onwards, Schools should use only the standardised weighted profiling system for determining the degree class of borderline students.
A student should be given the higher class if either of the following criteria are met:
i)
Half or more of the final stage credits are in the higher class;
ii)
Half or more of the final and penultimate stage credits are in the higher class.
This does not preclude the consideration of Extenuating Circumstances of students, whether inside or outside the borderline.
3. The timing and consultation of School Boards of Examiners meetings which consider students on Joint Honours courses
Includes:
conventions; responsibilities of the lead School
Exam Board Meetings considering degree awards for Joint Honours students should be applying previously agreed and published conventions. The timing and constitution of the Board of Examiners meeting will normally be that of the Lead School (including the External Examiner(s) appointed to that School).
The Lead School should be responsible for ensuring that its Exam Board is held at a time which will allow all information and marks to be available from the partner School, even if the Lead School's Exam Board takes place ahead of that of the partner School. The recommendations for Joint Honours students should then be reported to the partner Schools for information.
This procedure obviates the need for External Examiners from partner Schools to attend the Exam Board of the Lead School where logistical difficulties prevent attendance.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
25 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/ug-deg-class-sept20.aspx
Header: Undergraduate degree classification from September 2020
Intro: This page contains the degree classifications for all undergraduate students who entered their Qualifying year or Part I* from September 2020. Its contents are only applicable to students who were admitted from that date but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Undergraduate degree classification from September 2020 - The University of NottinghamUndergraduate degree classification from September 2020
This page contains the degree classifications for all undergraduate students who entered their Qualifying year or Part I* from September 2020. Its contents are only applicable to students who were admitted from that date but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Honours and Integrated Masters degrees
Includes:
commencement dates; former regulations
These regulations take effect from 2020/21 for students entering Qualifying year or Part I* from September 2020. Other students are subject to the former regulations, except for Regulation 26 (b) which applies to all students from September 2020.  For more information about the former regulations, please consult the following:
Degree classification before September 2020
Standardised weightings between Parts apply unless an approved Professional Statutory or Regulatory Body (PSRB) or other exemption has been given and this is stated in the relevant programme specification(s).
Arithmetic mean model
Includes:
unit marks; modules marks; weightings; weighted numerical average; borderlines
1.
Unit marks (see footnote 1 in the All awards section) are numeric.
2.
Module mark is calculated from unit marks and rounded to a numeric integer
3.
Module marks are weighted accordingly to the number of credits attached to the module - for example, a 20 credit module is weighted double compared to a 10 credit module.
4.
The relative weightings of Part I/II/III marks are given in programme specifications.
5.
A weighted numerical average is calculated using the weightings indicated in 3 and 4 above.
6.
The weighted numerical average is rounded. For more information, please consult the following:
Policy on marking and grading
7.
Weighted numerical average is translated into degree classification according to Table 1.
Table 1
I
=
70%+
II-1
=
60% - 69%
II-2
=
50% - 59%
III
=
40% - 49%
Pass
* that is, an unclassified degree and therefore awarded without honours.
=
40%+ (which can include reassessment marks from Parts I/II/III)
Only the following rounded marks will be regarded as “borderline”:
69 Borderline I
59 Borderline II-1
49 Borderline II-2
At the III/Fail boundary there is no borderline.
Other Undergraduate awards
Includes:
classifications; borderlines; calculating an overall average
Ordinary Degrees and Undergraduate and Graduate Certificates and Diplomas are classified using a weighted numerical average as defined above. The classifications are:
Distinction = 70%
Merit = 60% - 69%
Pass = 40% - 59%
Only the following rounded marks will be regarded as borderline:
69 Borderline Distinction
59 Borderline Merit
At the Pass/Fail boundary there is no borderline.
When calculating an overall average, in the case of Ordinary Degrees, classification is based on the best marks obtained from 100 credits at Part I and the best marks obtained from 100 credits at Part II.
In the case of Undergraduate Diplomas the classification is based on the best marks obtained in 120 credits taken in stage 2 or 3 including at least 90 credits at level 2.
All awards
Includes:
use of borderlines; extenuating circumstances; footnotes
Use of borderlines
Following moderation an agreed algorithm is used to determine the final composite mark. If this falls within a borderline as defined above, the weighted profiling system as stated in the programme specification will be applied to determine the final classification (see footnote 3 below)
Extenuating circumstances
Students with acceptable extenuating circumstances should be considered in accordance with the Extenuating Circumstances Policy and Procedures. For more information, please consult the following:
Extenuating circumstances procedure
Footnotes
1.
“Unit mark” is the mark awarded for an individual piece of assessed work, which goes towards the computation of a module mark using a weighting formula.
2.
For students registering on programmes from 2009/10 onwards, Schools should use only a weighted profiling system for determining the degree class of borderline students. The profiling system must be stated in the programme specification and made explicit and clear to students from the start of their studies through School Handbooks.
3.
For students entering Qualifying year or Part I* from 2020/21 onwards, Schools should use only the standardised weighted profiling system for determining the degree class of borderline students.
An undergraduate student should be given the higher class if either of the following criteria are met:
i)
Two thirds or more of the final stage credits are in the higher class;
ii)
Two thirds or more of the final and penultimate stage credits are in the higher class.
This does not preclude the consideration of Extenuating Circumstances of students, whether inside or outside the borderline.
* In consideration that not all students who entered Part I in September 2020 may be aware of the changes to borderline criteria which would be applied from summer 2022,  the borderline criteria taking effect from September 2020 will apply only to students who entered Qualifying year from September 2020 onwards. Students in a borderline, who entered Qualifying year prior to September 2020, will  be considered under the regulations applicable pre-September 2020
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
22 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/assessment-awards-and-deg-classification/pgt-deg-sept21.aspx
Header: Postgraduate taught degree classification from September 2021
Intro: This page contains the degree classifications for all postgraduate taught students who began their awards from September 2021. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Postgraduate taught degree classification from September 2021 - The University of NottinghamPostgraduate taught degree classification from September 2021
This page contains the degree classifications for all postgraduate taught students who began their awards from September 2021. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
Includes:
commencement dates; former regulations
These regulations take effect from 2021/22 for students who began their awards from September 2021. Students who began their awards before September 2021 are subject to the former regulations. For more information about the former regulations, please consult the following:
Degree classification
Taught Postgraduate Awards
Includes:
classification; postgraduate diplomas and certificates; borderlines
The classification rules for Taught Masters, Postgraduate Diplomas and Postgraduate Certificates (that is, the award of Merits and Distinctions) are contained in the University’s Taught Postgraduate Regulations. The classifications are:
Distinction = 70% and above
Merit = 60% - 69%
Pass = 50% - 59%
Borderlines for these qualifications are:
69 Borderline Distinction
59 Borderline Merit
50 Pass (there is no borderline at Pass/Fail)
Application
Includes:
use of borderlines; extenuating circumstances; footnotes
Use of borderlines
Following moderation an agreed algorithm is used to determine the final composite mark.  If this falls within a borderline as defined above, the weighted profiling system as stated in the programme specification will be applied to determine the final classification (footnote 2).
Extenuating circumstances
Students with acceptable extenuating circumstances should be considered in accordance with the extenuating circumstances policy and procedures. For more information, please consult the following:
Policy on circumstances affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments
Footnotes
1.
“Unit mark” is the mark awarded for an individual piece of assessed work, which goes towards the computation of a module mark using a weighting formula.
2.
For students entering Taught Postgraduate programmes from 2021/22 onwards, Schools should use only the standardised weighted profiling system for determining the degree class of borderline students.
A student should be given the higher classification if the following criterion is met:
Two thirds or more of the final credits are in the higher class.
This does not preclude the consideration of Extenuating Circumstances of students, whether inside or outside the borderline.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
30 October 2023||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/monitoring.aspx
Header: Monitoring
Intro: This page explains the purpose and responsibilities surrounding monitoring, its associated documentation and feedback. This information is primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Monitoring - The University of NottinghamMonitoring
This page explains the purpose and responsibilities surrounding monitoring, its associated documentation and feedback. This information is primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
Includes:
expectations of Schools; responsibility of the School (at UNUK); involvement of the international campuses
Schools are expected to monitor each of their courses to ensure that no major difficulties have arisen and that appropriate opportunities for improvement have been identified. This information feeds into a wider cycle of quality assurance and in turn enhances the student experience on programme.
All taught programmes leading to a University award must be monitored, including those offered at the international campuses; this includes sub-degree and taught postgraduate courses. Other issues to be considered will be requirements of accrediting bodies and any issues arising from collaborative course provision. Joint Honours courses and other joint degrees should be monitored by the lead School. Undergraduate and postgraduate programmes will be monitored on separate cycles.
The School at the UK campus (UNUK) should also ensure that programmes run at the international campuses (either separately or jointly across campuses) should be included in deliberations at School level.
At the module level, the minimum requirement is for each module convenor to consider any changes needed to their modules and to submit these amendments to the School for approval.
What does monitoring include?
Handling and consideration of External Examiners' reports
External confirmation of standards
Review of modules, including changes to curriculum, delivery and assessment, and any changes (in response to changes in programme learning outcomes and otherwise)
How changes have been communicated to students
Feedback from students (facilitated by the Students' Union)
Consideration of how exceptional regulations have been applied
Responsibilities
Includes:
Schools; Education Excellence team; Planning, performance and Strategic Change; Students' Union; Quality and Standards Committee
Schools
Schools are required to complete a monitoring return for each programme run in the year reported on (monitoring reflects on the previous cycle of activity). The UK head of School has responsibility for Quality Assurance (QA) activity (which can be delegated by way of a Statement of Responsibilities) and should ensure coverage of programmes, on all campuses, in returns.
Feedback from previous reports, External Examiner reports, student feedback, in-School activity and changes, should be reflected upon to produce a written account and a summary of the actions which will be taken as a result. The return may encompass a number of related courses which are being monitored together. The completed return should be returned to the Education Excellence team by the designated deadline.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please email:
monitoring@nottingham.ac.uk
The Education Excellence team
The Education Excellence team will provide Schools with lists of the programmes for which reports are expected. Previous reports and External Examiner reports will be made available on the Monitoring Workspace, which can be found below. The team will run an annual training session on the process, and provide advice and guidance to Schools to support the process.
When returns have been completed by the School, the Education Excellence team will complete the relevant sections of the forms ahead of review by Quality and Standards Committee (QSC). Education Excellence will also provide comment on the External Examiners’ reports and responses received, including confirmation of their view of the achievement of UK threshold academic standards.
An overview report of the process, including External Examiner comments on comparison across campuses, positive and negative themes and an analysis of reports received from Schools will be produced for QSC.
The Students' Union
The Students' Union will complete a Monitoring Student Feedback form, which include pro forma questions on student engagement and experience and return these to the Education Excellence team for review by QSC.
Quality and Standards Committee
QSC receive and review all completed Monitoring returns and Monitoring Student Feedback forms, and complete a Pro Forma for each School.
The Inter-Campus Quality Officer will review the summary of External Examiner comments on comparison across campuses and report any issues or areas of best practice to the Chair of QSC.
The Chair of QSC will produce a summary report, by reviewing the Pro Forma produce by the Committee and feedback from the Inter-Campus Quality Officer, for Teaching and Learning Committee and the Education and Student Experience Committee.
For more information on QSC, please consult the following:
Quality and Standards Committee
Submission forms, feedback and workspace
Includes:
template for research programmes; template for taught programmes
Research Monitoring Form
Taught Monitoring Form
Monitoring Forms, please email as an attachment to:
monitoring@nottingham.ac.uk
Feedback
Schools will receive feedback following consideration of their Monitoring submissions by Quality and Standards Committee (QSC); this includes the completed Monitoring returns, Monitoring Student Feedback Forms and completed QSC Pro Forma. This will be made available to Schools on the Monitoring Workspace.
Monitoring workspace
For more information about monitoring, please consult the following:
Monitoring - Workspace
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
14 June 2023||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/governance/external-assessors-role.aspx
Header: External assessors role
Intro: This section contains detailed information with regards to the roles and responsibilities of the External Assessor for Apprenticeship Integrated End-Point Assessments. This information is only relevant to staff and students based at the UK campus.
Content:
External assessors role - The University of NottinghamExternal assessors role
This section contains detailed information with regards to the roles and responsibilities of the External Assessor for Apprenticeship Integrated End-Point Assessments. This information is only relevant to staff and students based at the UK campus.On occasion, the External Assessor for the End-Point Assessment (EPA) activities may also be the External Examiner for the associated degree apprenticeship programme. Where this is the case, that individual will need to comply with the duties and responsibilities of that role in addition to the requirements noted below.
The following is only applicable for Integrated programmes
1.   Appointment
1.1
Schools are responsible for providing nominations for the appointment of External Assessor(s) (EA) for their End-Point Assessments (EPA) on an annual basis. Council has the power to receive nominations and approve such appointments and discharges its responsibilities in this regard through the Quality and Standards Committee (QSC).
1.2
The EA must not be involved in the delivery of the apprenticeship training and must be independent from apprentices, employers and Training Providers (except as an existing External Examiner for the programme).
1.3
It is the EA’s role provide assurance to the University of the quality and standard of the EPA, as set out the EPA plan, and to ensure the assessment processes are reliable, fair and transparent and that they operate in line with the University’s Regulations.
1.4
The EA will be provided with guidance and undertake an induction and relevant training for the EPA delivery, which will be provided by the School.
1.5
The EA will be expected to engage in regular Continual Professional Development (CPD) activity related to their role in line within the relevant Apprenticeship Standard and provide evidence of this to the School.
2.  Main responsibilities of External Assessor (EA)
2.1
The main responsibilities of EAs are:
i) To provide informative comment and recommendations on whether the EPA meet the standards set within the EPA plan,
ii) To provide informative comment and recommendations upon whether the assessment process measures student achievement rigorously and fairly against the intended outcomes of the EPA plan and is conducted in line with the relevant policies and regulations,
iii) To provide informative comment on whether the academic standards and achievements of students undertaking the EPA are reliable and comparable to EPA across different EPAOs, employers, places, times and assessors,
iv) To annually submit evidence of CPD records to the relevant School within the agreed timescales,
v) To annually review their conflict-of-interest declaration within the agreed timescales,
vi) To submit all requested documentation within university timescales.
3.   Enhancement of quality
3.1
In addition to the responsibilities outlined in the previous section, EAs are asked to provide informative comment and recommendations on any good practice and innovation relating to learning, teaching and assessment they observe, and also opportunities to enhance the quality of the learning opportunities provided to apprentices.
4.   Criteria for appointment and termination of contract
Includes:
Conflict of Interest; apprenticeship standards; assessment plans; CPD
4.1
Nominees will ideally have experience and expertise of the following:
Practice-based / vocational settings in relation to apprenticeship programmes
Experience and understanding of apprenticeship standards and assessment plans
Is occupationally and academically competent in degree-level assessment
4.2
Be independent of the apprentice, the End-Point Assessment Organisation (EPAO) (University of Nottingham) and employing organisation who are involved in delivering the apprenticeship.
4.3
Able to demonstrate the knowledge, skills and experience required of an EA, as outlined in the EPA plan and meets all external regulatory requirements.
4.4
In view of the importance of the EA, the University reserves the right to review the appointment of an EA in the following circumstances:
The EA fails to fulfil the terms of contract,
A conflict of interest arises that cannot be satisfactorily resolved,
EPA plans change to an extent that the EA can no longer demonstrate compliance with appointment criteria,
The EA does not engage or does not produce evidence of continued CPD in line with the standards set out in the EPA plan,
The EA fails to engage with the University’s mandatory training.
5.   Restrictions on appointment
Includes:
conflict of interest; categories and circumstances; reappointment restrictions
5.1
The nomination complies with the University’s conflict of interest policy in relation to the appointment of EAs. For more information, please consult the following:
Policy on conflict of interest
5.2
Appointment of an EA will be carried out on an annual basis by the School, in conjunction with Registry and Academic Affairs.
5.3
Re-appointment (or renewal) of an EA who has previously fulfilled the role may be allowed, on the basis that the individual in question continues to meet all the requirements of the standard and has shown an acceptable level of involvement in the past.
5.4
An EA should normally hold no more than one other external examinership during the period of their appointment.
6.   Confirmation and period of appointment
6.1
EA will be appointed on an annual basis.
6.2
Every EA will receive a formal letter of appointment from Registry and Academic Affairs (Quality and Student Management System team) setting the programme(s) to be examined, specific responsibilities and the fee to be paid.
7.   Details of External Assessor (EA) appointments
Includes:
responsibilities of the Head of School; EAs' report availability
7.1
Schools should ensure that EAs’ reports are made available in full to students, with the sole exception of any confidential report made directly, and separately, to the Vice-Chancellor. For this reason, EAs will be asked not to identify any individual apprentice or staff by name in their summary reports.
7.2
Schools should ensure that their apprentices are informed that it is inappropriate for them to directly contact EAs and that other appropriate mechanisms are available for them to raise concerns regarding their individual performance in assessments, for example the Appeals or Complaints procedures.
8.   Preparation of External Assessors (EA) for their role
Includes:
responsibility of Registry and Academic Affairs; appointments with no previous experience; responsibilities of the Head of School
8.1
Registry and Academic Affairs ensures that all EAs are
informed about the University’s procedures and policies, including the University’s appeals and reassessment process, which may be by provision of an opportunity to attend a University or School induction event.
8.2
Where the individual appointed has no previous experience as an EA for any institution, the School should ensure that the appointment is, if practicable, made to a team of EAs, or that with prior agreement a more experienced EA will act as a mentor.
8.3
Heads of School are responsible for ensuring that EAs are provided with information on the University’s marking and grading policy, moderation practices and any additional requirements contained with the Apprentice standard or EPA plan.
8.4
The School should ensure that all EAs are given the opportunity to engage with training / briefing materials at both University and School level.  Engagement with such materials by the EA is considered mandatory.
8.5
Heads of School are responsible for ensuring that EAs are given the relevant material they require and adequate time to carry out the role.
9.   Detailed responsibilities of External Assessors (EA)
Includes:
requirements; Microsoft Forms report, annual report, final summary report; submission and contact details
9.1
EAs are responsible for assuring the University on the quality and standards of EPA delivery.
9.2
EAs are responsible for assuring the University that the assessment procedures being followed (including marking criteria and marking schemes and the consideration of extenuating circumstances) are fair and reasonable, protect academic standards, and are in line with the EPA Plan and appropriate apprenticeship standards.
9.3
EAs are responsible for endorsing assessment outcomes. In doing so, they need to be assured that marking criteria have been applied rigorously and fairly and that the recommendations of the IAs reflect the standards set by the EPA Plan.
9.4
EAs are responsible for providing the University with an annual written report in compliance with the standard requirements outlined in the report form and a final summary report at the end of their appointment.
10.   External Assessors (EA) report
Includes:
requirements; Microsoft Forms report, annual report, final summary report; submission and contact details
10.1
The EA is required to provide a summary report in a digital format, within the prescribed timescales outlined in the EPA Plan.  The EA’s summary report should be submitted through Microsoft Forms to Registry and Academic Affairs (Quality and Student Management Systems team), who will then arrange for the appropriate fee to be paid.
10.2
The report form is available on request by emailing:
indi-assessors@nottingham.ac.uk
10.3
Registry and Academic Affairs (Quality and Student Management team) will forward copies of the report to the Head of School (for action). Copies should also be made available to the External Examiner for related apprenticeship degree programme, Apprenticeship committee and the Office for Students (OfS) Designated Quality Body the (Quality Assurance Agency.
11.    Format of the External Assessors’ (EA) report
Includes:
report explicitly on standards, assessments and awards; may also make a written report on confidential matters
11.1
In their report, the EA is asked to report explicitly on standards, assessments awards and conduct of the EPA process using the standardised report form provided and to draw attention in particular to any good practice, or areas requiring attention.
11.2
The EA may also make a written report on confidential matters to the Vice-Chancellor.  In exceptional cases, where the concern is systemic and not a one-off case of ineffective practice, and the EA has exhausted all published applicable internal procedures, including the submission of a confidential report to the Vice-Chancellor.
12.   Dealing with the External Assessors (EA) report on EPA
Includes:
School responsibilities; opportunities for feedback; circulation; communication requirements; responsibilities of Quality and Standards Committee, QAA, OfS, DQB
12.1
It is the School’s responsibility to ensure that the annual and final reports comply with the standard requirements outlined EPA Plan.
12.2
Reports must be available to the External Examiner for the associated apprenticeship degree programme and to the School's Student Staff Forum, Apprenticeship committees, and Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) and will be submitted to the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) in their role as the Designated Quality body (DQB) for the Office for Students (OfS) as part of their quality review process.
12.3
If an EA fails to submit an annual summary report in the time stipulated by the School, this may constitute grounds for not re-appointing the EA in a subsequent year.
12.4
To assist Schools in fulfilling their responsibility, Registry and Academic Affairs (Quality and Student Management Systems team) will notify them annually of any outstanding reports.
12.5
The School should provide an opportunity for the EA to give feedback arising from the performance of his / her duties and for the School to provide information to the EA on how the School has addressed issues raised in any previous report(s).
12.6
Subsequently, the School will forward each report of an EA, together with the written report on how the School has addressed the issues raised, to Registry and Academic Affairs (Quality and Student Management Systems team).
12.7
A letter is to be sent to each EA by the School on the actions or otherwise which have resulted from the report. A copy of each letter should be forwarded to Registry and Academic Affairs (Quality and Student Management Systems team).
12.8
It is the duty of the QSC to assure itself that any comments or recommendations of an EA have been addressed by the School and, if it is not satisfied, to seek to resolve the matter through a dialogue with the School
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
21 September 2023||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/admissions/pol-applicant-complaints.aspx
Header: Policy on applicant complaints
Intro: This page contains the University's policy on applicant complaints. Its content is primarily directed at applicants but may also be of interest to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Policy on applicant complaints - The University of NottinghamPolicy on applicant complaints
This page contains the University's policy on applicant complaints. Its content is primarily directed at applicants but may also be of interest to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1. Definitions
For the purposes of this policy, an applicant complaint is:
"an expression of dissatisfaction by one or more applicants about a University's action or lack of action, or about the service provided by or on behalf of the University."
2. Overview of the Applicant complaints procedure
Includes:
Level 1; Level 2; Level 3; link to the Applicant complaints procedure page
There are 3 Levels to the University complaints procedure:
Level 1:
Local Level
Level 2:
Head of School/Service (or equivalent at University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC)/University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM)) review
Level 3:
Faculty Pro-Vice Chancellor/Registrar (UNUK)/Faculty Dean/Director of Academic Services (UNM) / equivalent (UNNC)
For more detailed information about the procedure, please consult the following page:
Applicant complaints procedure
3. Who can use the Applicant complaints procedure?
Applicants to any of The University of Nottingham campuses may use this procedure.
Anyone wishing to make a complaint is encouraged to do so personally. Where a third party (such as a parent or guardian) makes a complaint on behalf of an applicant, the applicant’s express written consent that the third party is acting on their behalf will be required. All correspondence will be copied to the applicant as well as to their representative unless otherwise agreed.
Anonymous complaints will not be considered unless there are exceptional and evidence-based reasons to do so.  In many circumstances, raising a concern anonymously could impede investigation and communication of the outcome.
4. What issues constitute grounds for complaint under this policy?
Includes:
Dignity at Nottingham Policy
The subject of the complaint should relate specifically to one or more of the following, or comparable issues:
Failure of the University to meet obligations
Misleading or incorrect information in prospectuses or promotional material and other information provided by the University
Concerns about the application or interview process
Complaints involving other organisations or contractors providing a service on behalf of the University
Complaints relating to allegations of bullying, harassment or victimisation by members of staff are associated with the Dignity at Nottingham Policy within the University and should be addressed to the Director of Human Resources.
If the complaint is within the scope of the Dignity at Nottingham Policy and informal resolution is not appropriate then a formal investigation in accordance with the policy will be undertaken. Student Services will be informed that a complaint has been made and against whom (no further details will be divulged).
Once the Dignity Investigation Procedure has been completed, if the applicant’s allegations are proven, then the applicant may bring a level 2 complaint relating to the impact of the behaviour on their application within one month of the date of the outcome letter.
For more information about the Dignity at Nottingham Policy, please consult the following:
Dignity at Nottingham Policy
5. What issues do not constitute grounds for complaint under this policy?
Challenges to the academic judgement of a member of staff and/or School, including the outcome of an admissions decision.
Disagreement with a policy/regulation rather than its application.
A matter of public interest which may be better suited to the Whistleblowing (Public Interest Disclosure) Code. For more information, please consult the following:
Whistleblowing (Public Interest Disclosure) Code
6. Principles of this policy
Complaints should be treated seriously and applicants must not suffer any disadvantage or recrimination as a result of making a complaint in good faith. It is expected that applicants and their representatives will conduct themselves responsibly and treat the complaints process and those members of the University involved in the process with respect at all times.
In all cases, it is desirable that complaints are resolved informally and quickly between the relevant parties, and that the formal process is only started if that fails. Evidence of an attempt at informal resolution will be required.
Complaints must be substantiated with evidence, expressed in clear and succinct English and submitted within prescribed timescales.
Complaints submitted outside of the timescales stipulated in the procedure will only be considered in the most exceptional circumstances and where there is good reason, supported by evidence, for the late submission.
The University is committed to ensuring that complaints are handled in accordance with its published procedure. Occasionally, it may be sensible for the University to deviate from the procedure if strict adherence to it could give rise to perceptions of prejudice or bias. Complaint procedures are internal to a university and do not have the same degree of formality as a court of law. As such, legal representation in meetings is not necessary or appropriate for an applicant or the University during the complaints process and will not, therefore, be permitted.
The University will not accept or investigate complaints which it considers frivolous or vexatious and observes Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA) OIA guidance to identify such complaints. For more information, please consult the following:
Office of the Independent Adjudicator
Complaints form part of the University's process of quality review and improvement and are considered as providing valuable feedback rather than criticism.
Applicants will be notified early in the process if the remedy sought within the complaint is beyond the power of the University to deliver.
7. Recording and monitoring of complaints
It is important that complaints are monitored in order to improve the applicant experience. Admissions will record and provide reports to indicate the nature of complaints and complainants, and resultant action. Such reports will:
Feed into the monitoring and evaluation procedure at various levels: Department, School, Faculty, University;
Feed directly into appropriate University-wide committees;
Assist in identifying problems and trends across the University;
Form the basis of positive publicity, in demonstrating that identified issues have been resolved
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK
Admission queries UNUK
UNNC
Admission queries UNNC
UNM
Admissions queries UNM
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
21 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/admissions/applicant-complaints-procedure.aspx
Header: Applicant complaints procedure
Intro: This page sets out the University's applicant complaints procedure. Its content is primarily directed at applicants but may also be of interest to staff at all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Applicant complaints procedure - The University of NottinghamApplicant complaints procedure
This page sets out the University's applicant complaints procedure. Its content is primarily directed at applicants but may also be of interest to staff at all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Making a complaint
Includes:
Level 1; Level 2; Level 3
The following sections explain what this means, and what to do if a complaint is not resolved satisfactorily.
Level 1:
Local Level (informal resolution). To make a complaint an applicant must start at Level 1
Level 2:
Head of School/Service, or equivalent, review
Level 3:
Faculty Pro-Vice Chancellor (PVC)/Registrar (UK) / Faculty Dean / Director of Academic Services (University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM)) / equivalent (University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC))
There is a different process for complaints about fee status assessment. Please see here for details:
Fee status assessment
Expected time limits
Includes:
Table of expected time limits for each level of complaint; contact details
Table of expected time limits for each level of complaint
Level
Applicant
Admissions
Investigation
1
Complaint should be raised within 1 month of cause for complaint
No Involvement
Response will be communicated within 6 weeks of notification of complaint. If this is not possible, an alternative timescale will be issues to the complainant within the 6 weeks
2
Complaint should be raised within 1 month of outcome of Level 1
Will acknowledge receipt of complaint within 5 working days of receipt
* Indicative timescales for this stage are that a response will be sent within 6 weeks of receipt of complaint form in Admissions. If this is not possible, an alternative timescale will be issued to the complainant.
3
Complaint should be raised within 10 working days of outcome of Level 2 complaint
Will acknowledge receipt of complaint within 5 working days of receipt
*Indicative timescales for this stage are that a response will be sent within 4 weeks of receipt of complaint form in Admissions. If this is not possible, an alternative timescale will be issued to the complainant.
If an applicant fails to proceed within the given deadlines of the complaints procedure they may not be able to progress through the internal complaints mechanisms of the University.
The procedure has been separated into Responsibilities of Applicants and Responsibilities of those involved in the handling of the complaint on behalf of the University.
To raise a Level 2 or 3 complaint, please email:
admissions-complaints@nottingham.ac.uk
Responsibilities of applicants
Includes:
Level 1; Level 2; Level 3
Level 1: Local Level (informal resolution)
You are expected to try to resolve a complaint directly, informally and quickly with the person/department concerned:
You should raise the complaint within 1 month of the unsatisfactory circumstances occurring, at the latest.  The sooner the matter is raised, the better.
You are expected to explain clearly what the problem is and what outcome you are seeking.
If you are dissatisfied with the outcome, you can escalate your complaint to level 2.
Level 2: Head of School/Service or equivalent, formal review
You should complete the Level 2 Complaint Form within 1 month of notification of the outcome of Level 1.
Level 2 Complaint Form
You must provide a clear explanation of how you attempted to resolve your complaint informally at Level 1. As a minimum, your explanation should include a specific date, a named member of staff to whom the complaint was reported and why the complaint was not resolved to your satisfaction at Level 1.
Your complaint must be substantiated by evidence.  This may comprise one, or a series of the following types of evidence: a timeline of events, reference to relevant policies, procedures and/or regulations, letters, emails, independent medical evidence, reports by professionals, witness statements, screenshots etc.  Any evidence or appendices relevant to the complaint must be submitted at the same time as the complaint form and clearly referenced and labelled.
If you are making a Subject Access request as part of your complaint, you are expected to submit this as soon as practicably possible after the outcome of your Level 1 complaint and to provide evidence of submission as part of your Level 2 complaint.
It is your responsibility to make your case. Complaints will not be accepted for further investigation if:
your rationale for complaint is unclear
you don’t provide evidence
you fail to include important dates, times and other details necessary for determining the eligibility of the complaint.
You are required to ensure that any evidence not written in English is translated and provided at the same time as the complaint paperwork.
If your submission is unclear or unnecessarily long, you will be asked to resubmit the form in a manner that enables proper consideration of the complaint to take place.
You should send the completed form to the Admissions team via email to:
admissions-complaints@nottingham.ac.uk
You will normally receive an outcome letter within 6 weeks of receipt of your Level 2 complaint form by the Admissions Team. If the investigation will take longer than 6 weeks, you will be informed of the reason and an expected date of response.
If you are dissatisfied with the outcome, you can escalate your complaint to Level 3 on the following grounds:
you believe that a procedural irregularity has occurred in the handling and/or the investigation of the Level 2 complaint and/or;
you are in possession of additional evidence which may have affected the outcome at Level 2 but was unavailable at the time of the original Level 2 investigation and/or;
you have a compelling argument to demonstrate that the outcome at Level 2 was unreasonable.  Claims of this nature must be supported by evidence and a clear rationale for the unreasonable nature of the decision. Claims that amount simply to an expression of dissatisfaction with the decision will not be considered.
Level 3: Faculty Pro-Vice Chancellor/Registrar (or equivalent at the international campuses) review
You should submit the Level 3 Complaint Form within 10 working days of notification of the outcome of the Level 2 complaint.
Level 3 Complaint Form
You must set out the grounds of the complaint by making reference to the above standards, and must provide evidence to support your claim, including proof of why new evidence being presented was not available at the time of the submission of your Level 2 complaint.
You should send the completed form to the Admissions team via email to:
admissions-complaints@nottingham.ac.uk
You will normally receive an outcome letter within 4 weeks of receipt of your level 3 complaint form by the Admissions Team. If the review will take longer than 4 weeks, you will be informed of the reason and an expected date of response.
Other procedural points
Hard copies of forms are available to applicants who, for reasons of disability, are unable to access the electronic form.
You have the right to bring a friend to meetings arranged during the formal stages of the procedure. Solicitors or other legal representatives will not be permitted to attend.
For more information, please email:
admissions-complaints@nottingham.ac.uk
Responsibilities of those involved in the handling of the complaint on behalf of the University
Includes:
Level 1; Level 2; Level 3
Level 1: Local Level (informal resolution)
Staff dealing with complaints are encouraged, whenever practical, to meet with the applicant to establish the precise cause of dissatisfaction, to explore the remedy sought by the applicant and to foster a mutual understanding of the issues involved:
The member of staff is expected to listen to the complaint and to try to resolve it in a straightforward, reasonable and prompt manner.
Although informal, the member of staff should make notes of any meetings and keep a record of the agreed outcome. Notes should be shared with the applicant. The applicant should be notified that the matter is deemed to be resolved and advised of the availability of Level 2 of the complaints procedure, if the complaint is not upheld or the applicant is dissatisfied with the attempt at resolution.
Level 2: Head of School/Service or equivalent, formal review
On receipt of a level 2 complaint the Admissions Team will undertake an initial evaluation to check that the complaint is submitted under the right procedures, within the appropriate deadlines, and in the required format with supporting evidence:
The Admissions Team will administer the complaint and will be accessible to complainants and staff at all stages of the process. The complaint will be referred to the appropriate person in the School, usually the Head of School/Service. If the subject of the original complaint is the Head of School, then another Head of School will conduct the review. If the subject of the original complaint is the Head of Service, then another Head of Service or their line manager will conduct the review. If the subject of the complaint is a member of the University’s Executive Board (UEB), another member of UEB will conduct the review.
The Head of School/Service will ensure that an investigation is carried out. The investigation may be delegated to an appropriate member of staff. It will not normally be appropriate to keep the name of the person investigating the complaint confidential. The investigation and its outcome must be fair and reasonable.
It may be appropriate for the investigator to meet with the complainant and/or other parties named in the paperwork. Should the investigator wish to meet with the complainant, he/she will contact the applicant to propose this course of action and secure an appropriate date to meet. The complainant will be offered the opportunity to bring a friend to this meeting. Solicitors or other legal representatives will not be permitted to attend.
If the Head of School/Service finds in favour of the applicant, they may decide on whatever redress they think appropriate, bearing in mind the outcome sought by the applicant.
A report of the investigation will be prepared before a written response is provided to the complainant. The report will be provided to the applicant with the outcome letter.
If the complaint is not upheld, the applicant will be notified of the availability of Level 3 of the complaints procedure.
All outcome responses to Level 2 complaints will be issued by the Admissions Team.
Level 3: Faculty Pro-Vice Chancellor/Registrar (or equivalent at the international campuses) review
On receipt of a level 3 complaint form, the Admissions Team will undertake an initial evaluation to check that the complaint is submitted within the appropriate deadlines, meets the criteria for level 3 review and is in the required format with supporting evidence. A complaint without adequate grounds and evidence will be dismissed:
If the applicant provides evidence to support the criteria, the complaint will be referred to the Faculty Pro-Vice Chancellor (PVC) for review. If the Level 2 complaint was reviewed by the Faculty PVC, it will be referred to the PVC of a different Faculty. Where the Level 2 complaint was heard by a Head of Service, the Level 3 complaint will be heard by the Registrar, rather than a Faculty PVC. The PVC or Registrar may appoint an appropriate nominee to undertake the review on his or her behalf.
The review stage will not usually consider the issues afresh or involve further investigation.  In reaching a decision, the reviewer is expected to be fair and reasonable.
If the complaint is upheld, both the applicant and the Head of School/Service will receive a written explanation of the decision.
If the Faculty PVC/Registrar does not uphold the complaint, the applicant will receive a written response giving reasons.
The Faculty PVC may decide to uphold part, but not all, of the complaint and will respond to the applicant accordingly.
Level 2 and 3 complaint forms
Please be aware that these forms should only be completed for their stated levels of complaint; a Level 1 complaint does not require a form submission:
Level 2 Complaint Form
Level 3 Complaint Form
Completed forms should be sent to the Admissions Team (as stated in the "Responsibilities" sections above).
Contact information
Admissions Team
University of Nottingham
Gatehouse Lodge
Wollaton Hall Drive
Derby Road
Nottingham NG8 1AF
For more information, please email:
admissions-complaints@nottingham.ac.uk
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK
Admission queries UNUK
UNNC
Admission queries UNNC
UNM
Admissions queries UNM
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
12 February 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/concerns-complaints-and-appeals/pol-investigation-by-independent-following-a-complaint-to-su.aspx
Header: Policy to instigate an investigation by an independent person following a complaint to the Students' Union
Intro: This page contains the University's policy on complaints made by independent persons following a previous complaint to the Students' Union. This information is relevant to staff and students who are based at the UK campus but may also be of interest to those at the international campuses as well.
Content:
Policy to instigate an investigation by an independent person following a complaint to the Students' Union - The University of NottinghamPolicy to instigate an investigation by an independent person following a complaint to the Students' Union
This page contains the University's policy on complaints made by independent persons following a previous complaint to the Students' Union. This information is relevant to staff and students who are based at the UK campus but may also be of interest to those at the international campuses as well.Eligibility
Any student or students who are dissatisfied in their dealings with the Students' Union, or claim to be disadvantaged by reason of their having exercised the right to withdraw from membership, shall be entitled to have their complaint considered in accordance with the Students' Union's complaints procedure which is available to all students who are eligible to be members.
This procedure includes the right of appeal to a person independent of the Students' Union (appointed on behalf of University Council) at the point at which the Student has completed all of the stages of the Students’ Union Complaints Procedure.
For more information about Students' Union Policy and Procedures, please consult the following:
Students' Union - policies and useful links
Appeal procedure
Includes:
role of the Registrar; role of an independent person; communication of outcome
An appeal against an outcome of the Student's Union (SU) complaints procedure should be made to the Registrar. The appellant should provide a statement which concisely summarises the argument which is being made, referencing key evidence.
The Registrar’s Department will seek evidence that the Students' Union Complaints Procedure has been exhausted.
The Registrar will make a judgement on the eligibility of the appeal based on the two points above.
If eligibility has been established, the Registrar will arrange for an Independent Person to be appointed on behalf of Council and will notify the appellant that this is the case or that conditions 1 and 2 have not been met.
The Independent Person will have the discretion to seek more material or speak with any of the parties involved if they deem that necessary in order to reach an appeal outcome.
The Registrar will communicate an appeal outcome through the Office of the Registrar of the University of Nottingham. The University endeavours to ensure that an eligible appellant will receive an outcome within 30 days of receiving confirmation that the Independent Person has been appointed.
For more information about the Registrar's department, please consult the following:
Registrar's Department
Limitations
Includes:
end of procedure; completion of procedures letter; options for further pursuit
There is no further right of appeal within the University. At the end of the procedure a Completion of Procedures letter may be provided by the Registrar of the University.
If the complainant remains dissatisfied they may chose to pursue their complaint through the Office of the Independent Adjudicator’s (OIA) complaint scheme.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
12 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/concerns-complaints-and-appeals/deg-class-appeals.aspx
Header: Degree classification appeals
Intro: This page provides guidance for graduating students who are appealing against their degree classification. Its contents are primarily directed at graduating students but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Degree classification appeals - The University of NottinghamDegree classification appeals
This page provides guidance for graduating students who are appealing against their degree classification. Its contents are primarily directed at graduating students but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Classification appeals – arrangements for graduation
Includes:
period between publication of results and graduation ceremony; options; request to defer; contact details
The period between the publication of the results and the graduation ceremonies is very limited, and it is often not possible for an appeal to be resolved in time for any change to a classification to be made in time for the ceremony in the case of a successful appeal.
A student may therefore opt to either:
1.
Graduate at the ceremony immediately following the publication of their results with the classification as published on the Pass List. If the classification is subsequently changed on appeal a revised certificate will be issued and the office record amended; or
2.
Defer graduation to the following set of ceremonies (that is, December instead of July, or July instead of December) by which time the appeal will normally be resolved. If the appeal is successful and the examiners change the classification, then it will be conferred with the revised classification and the University's records amended accordingly.
Students should note that classifications are not published in the ceremony proceedings.
For students wishing to take option 2 (deferral) a request to defer must be made to the Graduation team (please put 'Request to defer graduation' in the subject line) or equivalent in writing no less than 15 working days before the relevant graduation ceremony to allow the ceremony proceedings to be altered. If deferral is not requested in this way or is requested after this deadline, option 1 will be actioned.
Request a deferral
To request a graduation deferral, please email:
graduation@nottingham.ac.uk
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
12 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/concerns-complaints-and-appeals/f1arcp-outcome4-appeal-procedure.aspx
Header: F1 ARCP Outcome 4 appeal procedure
Intro: This page sets out the F1 ARCP Outcome 4 appeal procedure, including evidence and timescales. Its content is only applicable to staff and students who are based at the University of Nottingham's Medical School in the UK.
Content:
F1 ARCP Outcome 4 appeal procedure - The University of NottinghamF1 ARCP Outcome 4 appeal procedure
This page sets out the F1 ARCP Outcome 4 appeal procedure, including evidence and timescales. Its content is only applicable to staff and students who are based at the University of Nottingham's Medical School in the UK.Principles
Includes:
Medical Act; Foundation programmes
Under the Medical Act, the General Medical Council (GMC) has determined that the graduating UK university or medical school is responsible for the recommendation for full registration. This procedure is set within the provisions of the current UK Foundation Programme Reference Guide (FPRG).
For more information, please consult the following:
UK Foundation Programme
UK Foundation Programme Reference Guide
1. Grounds for appeal and timescales
Includes:
F1 ARCP outcome 4 appeal form
a)
Graduates of the University of Nottingham Medical School should lodge their appeal with the Postgraduate Dean, or nominated representative, by completing an appeal form and submitting it to the Postgraduate Dean within one month of notification of the Annual Review of Competence Progression (ARCP) Outcome 4 decision. The Postgraduate Dean will contact the Dean of the School of Medicine at the University of Nottingham, or their nominated Deputy, and forward a copy of the appeal form and any other documentation provided by the trainee as part of the appeal. On receipt of an appeal form, the Dean, or their nominated Deputy, will:
i)
Notify the Complaints and Conduct Team who will log the case.
ii)
Assess whether the appeal is eligible for consideration.
Only claims evidencing at least one of the following circumstances will be considered:
That parts of the documented assessment procedure were not applied and that this procedural irregularity has resulted in disadvantage to the trainee significant enough to have materially affected the decision made, rendering it unsound.
That prejudice or bias on the part of one or more of the assessors took place and can be proven or there are reasonable grounds to support the perception of prejudice or bias.
That the decision-making body took a decision which no reasonable person would find comprehensible. Disagreement with the decision does not make it manifestly unreasonable.
b)
If the appeal appears to be eligible for consideration, the Dean of the School of Medicine, or their nominated Deputy, will arrange for an appeal hearing.
The key issues of the appeal must be explained in a clear, coherent and concise manner.  If the submission is unclear the trainee will be asked to resubmit the form in a manner that enables proper consideration of the appeal to take place.  A timescale for resubmission will be set. The appeal must be substantiated by evidence and/or a compelling argument in support of their claims.  This may comprise one, or a series of the following types of evidence: a timeline of events, reference to relevant policies and/or regulations, letters, emails, independent medical evidence, witness statements, screenshots.  Any evidence or appendices relevant to the appeal must be submitted at the same time as the form and clearly referenced and labelled.
It is the responsibility of the trainee to make their case. An appeal will not be accepted for consideration if: the grounds for appeal are unclear, it is unnecessarily long, it is submitted without evidence or fails to include important dates, times and other details necessary for determining the eligibility of the appeal.
Requests for adjustments on the basis of a disability which will enable the trainee to access the procedure effectively, should be emailed to the Dean or their nominated Deputy.
If the appeal is not substantiated by evidence or a compelling rationale to support their concerns, or if the trainee’s appeal is submitted out of time for consideration (for example more than one month after notification of the decision), the trainee will be issued with a Completion of Procedures letter.
When applying for an appeal, please complete the following:
F1 ARCP Outcome 4 appeal form
To submit your appeal form to the Postgraduate Dean, please send your completed form to
academic-appeals@nottingham.ac.uk
2. Timescale
A formal appeal hearing should normally take place, where practicable, within six (6) weeks of the appeal being received by the University of Nottingham. If it is not possible to comply with this timescale, the trainee will be notified in writing of the reasons for the delay and the revised timescale.
More information on the grounds for appeal can be found here:
Student Services – Complaints and conduct
3. Further evidence and paperwork
a)
The Dean of the School of Medicine, or their nominated Deputy, will arrange for a case handler from the Complaints and Conduct Team to act as a point of contact for the trainee with regard to the running of the hearing.
b)
The Case Handler will contact the relevant Foundation School to request;
(i) That a representative is appointed to make the School’s case at the hearing. The Foundation School Representative should have detailed knowledge of the case and of the reasons for the ARCP Outcome 4 decision.
(ii) To provide paperwork in support of the decision made. Paperwork could include, but is not limited to;
• A copy of the Outcome 4 decision communicated to the trainee
• Details of the warning of a possible Outcome 4 prior to the ARCP meeting
• A copy of all paperwork considered by the panel which issued the Outcome 4 decision, details of the membership of that panel and confirmation of the rationale for the Outcome 4 decision
• A copy of documentation relating to the review of the decision, if applicable
• Details of meetings that were held with the trainee to discuss progress and identify concerns and details of written confirmation of those concerns
• Details of any reasonable adjustments in place for the trainee or mitigating actions taken to support the trainee during the course of the Foundation Programme
c)
The trainee will receive a written invitation to the hearing from the case handler at least 10 working days in advance of the hearing and will be asked to confirm in writing his/her intention to attend. The trainee will receive a copy of the documentation provided by the Foundation School.
d)
Trainees may support their appeals with further written evidence, but this must be received at least five (5) working days before the hearing meets so that the panel is able to consider it in detail.
e)
The trainee will be notified of the names of the panel members and should notify the case handler immediately of any conflict of interest. The final decision as to what constitutes a “conflict of interest” lies with the Dean of the School of Medicine, or their nominated Deputy.
f)
The panel and the trainee will all have access to the same documentary and verbal evidence.
g)
The appeal panel Chair should consider postponing the appeal hearing if the appropriate documentation has not been circulated to the panel and/or the trainee within the stated timescales. It may, however, be appropriate to proceed if there is agreement on the day between the appeal panel Chair and the trainee.
4. The hearing panel
a)
Members of the appeal panel act with the full delegated authority of Senate.
b)
The appeal panel should include:
A member of the University’s Academic Appeals and Misconduct Committee who shall act as Chair.
A Director of a Foundation School other than the Director of the trainee’s Foundation School.
A member of the School of Medicine who has experience of working with Foundation trainees.
Additional panel members may also be appointed, subject to availability.
The trainee may request that the panel also include a Foundation Trainee Representative from another Foundation School. The case handler will make reasonable efforts to meet this request but it a suitable representative is not available, the request will be declined.
c)
A case handler will also be present to take notes.
5. Support for the trainee
a)
The trainee is entitled to bring a supporter. The supporter must be either:
a fellow trainee; or
a member of staff from the trainee’s foundation school; or
a union representative (for example, from the BMA or RCN).
The supporter may take notes on the trainee’s behalf, make representations on the trainee’s behalf and ask questions, but may not answer questions on the trainee’s behalf.
b)
The trainee must inform the case handler of the name and status of their supporter at least five (5) working days prior to the hearing. The trainee may be asked to choose a different supporter if, for example, it is perceived that the chosen supporter may cause a conflict of interest or if their presence may prejudice the meeting.
c)
Requests to accept representations by way of a legal representative will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Where requests of this nature are approved, the University will normally appoint legal counsel to act on its behalf. If a trainee wishes to be represented by a lawyer, then legal representatives will be reminded that appeal hearings are not courts of law and the panel governs its own procedure, including the questioning to be allowed of others by the legal representative.
6. Absence of staff or trainee from the hearing
a)
If the trainee has indicated their, or a supporter’s, intention to attend, but is prevented from doing so for good reason and contacts the case handler before the meeting to that effect, the chair will agree to defer consideration of the case and will agree alternative arrangements for an appeal. The chair will have discretion as to what constitutes "good reason".
b)
If the trainee has indicated their intention to attend, but fails to attend without reasonable explanation, the panel will hear the case in the trainee’s absence. The chair will have discretion as to what constitutes a "reasonable explanation".
c)
If a panel member or a foundation school representative is absent from the hearing, the chair will have discretion as to whether the hearing should proceed in their absence, or should be deferred.
7. Conduct of the hearing
This section defines the steps which should be followed during the appeal hearing itself: The chair has discretion to vary the practicalities of these arrangements as they think fit.
a)
The chair will ask if any member has been personally involved in the trainee's case at any prior stage and, if so, will ask them to withdraw for the duration of the case.
b)
The case handler will escort the trainee and/or supporter (if attending) and the foundation school representative, into the meeting.
c)
The chair will introduce by name the members of the panel and will explain the powers of the panel and the potential outcomes.
d)
The chair will invite the trainee to address the panel to summarise the reasons for appealing the ARCP Outcome 4 decision.
e)
Members of the panel will be invited to question the trainee.
f)
The Chair will invite the Foundation School representative to make a statement summarising the reason for the Outcome 4 decision.
g)
The Chair will invite questions to the Foundation School representative.
h)
The chair will ensure that the members of the panel have completed their questioning.
i)
The chair will ask the trainee if they wish to make any closing statement, and if they are satisfied that they have had a full opportunity to explain their case to the panel.
j)
The chair will ask everyone except the panel members and note-taker to leave the meeting and will ask them to wait pending a preliminary discussion.
k)
If the panel requires clarification of any aspect of the case requiring further questions to any party, they must all be invited back into the meeting for questioning to take place. They will then all leave the meeting again.
8. Communicating the outcome
The panel can either;
1.
Reject the appeal, in which case this is the final internal decision on the matter; or
2.
Uphold the appeal, in which case the trainee will be provided with information as to who to contact to consider next steps.
a)
Trainees will be notified in writing of the panel’s decision with reasons within five (5) working days (where possible) of the appeal hearing. The decision of the appeal panel is final and there is no further right of appeal.
b)
The Postgraduate Dean will be notified of the outcome.
c)
A Completion of Procedures letter will be issued to the trainee by the University of Nottingham upon request, provided that a request is made within one calendar month of the date of the appeal panel outcome letter.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
12 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/academic-regulations/qaa-qf.aspx
Header: The Quality Assurance Agency Qualification Framework
Intro: This page provides information about the Quality Assurance Agency's Frameworks for Higher Education Qualifications (FHEQ) and its use as a reference point for Higher Education Providers. Its content may be of interest to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
The Quality Assurance Agency Qualification Framework - The University of NottinghamThe Quality Assurance Agency Qualification Framework
This page provides information about the Quality Assurance Agency's Frameworks for Higher Education Qualifications (FHEQ) and its use as a reference point for Higher Education Providers. Its content may be of interest to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Descriptor for a qualification at Certificate of Higher Education level
These are awarded to students who have demonstrated:
Knowledge of the underlying concepts and principles associated with their area(s) of study, and an ability to evaluate and interpret these within the context of that area of study;
An ability to present, evaluate and interpret qualitative and quantitative data, in order to develop lines of argument and make sound judgements in accordance with basic theories and concepts of their subject(s) of study.
Typically, holders of the qualification will be able to:
Evaluate the appropriateness of different approaches to solving problems related to their area(s) of study and/or work;
Communicate the results of their study/work accurately and reliably, and with structured and coherent arguments;
Undertake further training and develop new skills within a structured and managed environment.
and will have:
The qualities and transferable skills necessary for employment requiring the exercise of some personal responsibility.
Descriptor for a qualification at Foundation Degree level
These are awarded to students who have demonstrated:
Knowledge and critical understanding of the well-established principles of their area(s) of study, and of the way in which those principles have developed;
An ability to apply underlying concepts and principles outside the context in which they were first studied, including, where appropriate, the application of those principles in an employment context
Knowledge of the main methods of enquiry in the subject(s) relevant to the named award, and an ability to critically evaluate the appropriateness of different approaches to solving problems in the field of study
An understanding of the limits of their knowledge, and how this influences analyses and interpretations based on that knowledge.
Typically, holders of the qualification will be able to:
Use a range of established techniques to initiate and undertake critical analysis of information, and to propose solutions to problems arising from that analysis;
Effectively communicate information, arguments and analysis in a variety of forms to specialist and non-specialist audiences, and deploy key techniques of the discipline effectively;
Undertake further training, develop existing skills and acquire new competencies that will enable them to assume significant responsibility within organisations.
and will have:
The qualities and transferable skills necessary for employment requiring the exercise of personal responsibility and decision-making.
Descriptor for a qualification at Bachelor's Degree with Honours level
These are awarded to students who have demonstrated:
A systematic understanding of key aspects of their field of study, including acquisition of coherent and detailed knowledge, at least some of which is at, or informed by, the forefront of defined aspects of a discipline;
An ability to deploy accurately established techniques of analysis and enquiry within a discipline;
Conceptual understanding that enables the student:
To devise and sustain arguments, and/or to solve problems, using ideas and techniques, some of which are at the forefront of a discipline;
To describe and comment upon particular aspects of current research, or equivalent advanced scholarship, in the discipline;
An appreciation of the uncertainty, ambiguity and limits of knowledge;
The ability to manage their own learning, and to make use of scholarly reviews and primary sources (for example, refereed research articles and/or original materials appropriate to the discipline).
Typically, holders of the qualification will be able to:
Apply the methods and techniques that they have learned to review, consolidate, extend and apply their knowledge and understanding, and to initiate and carry out projects;
Critically evaluate arguments, assumptions, abstract concepts and data (that may be incomplete), to make judgements, and to frame appropriate questions to achieve a solution - or identify a range of solutions - to a problem;
Communicate information, ideas, problems and solutions to both specialist and non-specialist audiences.
and will have:
The qualities and transferable skills necessary for employment requiring:
The exercise of initiative and personal responsibility;
Decision-making in complex and unpredictable contexts;
The learning ability needed to undertake appropriate further training of a professional or equivalent nature.
Descriptor for a qualification at Master's Degree level
These are awarded to students who have demonstrated:
A systematic understanding of knowledge, and a critical awareness of current problems and/or new insights, much of which is at, or informed by, the forefront of their academic discipline, field of study or area of professional practice;
A comprehensive understanding of techniques applicable to their own research or advanced scholarship;
Originality in the application of knowledge, together with a practical understanding of how established techniques of research and enquiry are used to create and interpret knowledge in the discipline;
Conceptual understanding that enables the student:
To evaluate critically current research and advanced scholarship in the discipline
To evaluate methodologies and develop critiques of them and, where appropriate, to propose new hypotheses.
Typically, holders of the qualification will be able to:
Deal with complex issues both systematically and creatively, make sound judgements in the absence of complete data, and communicate their conclusions clearly to specialist and non-specialist audiences;
Demonstrate self-direction and originality in tackling and solving problems, and act autonomously in planning and implementing tasks at a professional or equivalent level;
Continue to advance their knowledge and understanding, and to develop new skills to a high level.
and will have:
The qualities and transferable skills necessary for employment requiring:
The exercise of initiative and personal responsibility;
Decision-making in complex and unpredictable situations;
The independent learning ability required for continuing professional development.
Descriptor for a qualification at Doctoral Degree level
These are awarded to students who have demonstrated:
The creation and interpretation of new knowledge, through original research or other advanced scholarship, of a quality to satisfy peer review, extend the forefront of the discipline, and merit publication;
A systematic acquisition and understanding of a substantial body of knowledge which is at the forefront of an academic discipline or area of professional practice;
The general ability to conceptualise, design and implement a project for the generation of new knowledge, applications or understanding at the forefront of the discipline, and to adjust the project design in the light of unforeseen problems;
A detailed understanding of applicable techniques for research and advanced academic enquiry.
Typically, holders of the qualification will be able to:
Make informed judgements on complex issues in specialist fields, often in the absence of complete data, and be able to communicate their ideas and conclusions clearly and effectively to specialist and non-specialist audiences;
Continue to undertake pure and/or applied research and development at an advanced level, contributing substantially to the development of new techniques, ideas or approaches.
and will have:
The qualities and transferable skills necessary for employment requiring the exercise of personal responsibility and largely autonomous initiative in complex and unpredictable situations, in professional or equivalent environments.
Descriptor for a qualification at Foundation level
There is no Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) qualification descriptor for Foundation awards. The University has therefore adopted the following descriptor for qualifications at Foundation level (as described in the next section)
These are awarded to students who have demonstrated:
Knowledge of the basic concepts and principles associated with their field of study;
An ability to present qualitative and quantitative data;
An ability to develop arguments and make judgements in accordance with basic theories and concepts of the field of study;
Qualities and transferable skills necessary for employment undertaking allocated tasks.
Typically, holders of the qualification will be able to:
Solve basic problems related to the field of study;
Communicate the results of their study;
Undertake further training within a structured and managed environment.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
24 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/academic-regulations/rel-unqf-qaa.aspx
Header: Relationship of the UNQF to the QAA qualification descriptors
Intro: This page explains how the University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (UNQF) relates to the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA)'s Frameworks for Higher Education Qualifications (FHEQ). Its content may be of interest to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Relationship of the UNQF to the QAA qualification descriptors - The University of NottinghamRelationship of the UNQF to the QAA qualification descriptors
This page explains how the University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (UNQF) relates to the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA)'s Frameworks for Higher Education Qualifications (FHEQ). Its content may be of interest to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Relationship of the UNQF to the QAA Qualification Framework
Includes:
descriptors; application; modules
The Foundation qualification descriptor applies to Foundation Certificates.
The QAA level 4 Certificate of Higher Education qualification descriptor applies to Undergraduate Certificates and the Qualifying stage of other undergraduate qualifications.
The QAA level 5 Foundation Degree qualification descriptor applies to Undergraduate Diplomas, and the Part I stage of other undergraduate qualifications.
The QAA level 6 Bachelor's Degree with Honours qualification descriptor applies to Honours Degrees, Graduate Certificates, and Graduate Diplomas, Ordinary Degrees and the Part II stage of Integrated Masters.
The QAA level 7 Master's Degree qualification descriptor applies to Integrated Masters, Postgraduate Certificates, Postgraduate Diplomas, and Taught and Research Masters degrees.
The QAA level 8 Doctoral Degree qualification descriptor applies to Doctor of Philosophy degrees and Professional and Practitioner Doctorates.
Modules (and the credits ascribed from those modules) are ascribed levels as follows:
Level 0
- Module contributes to a Foundation Certificate
Level 1
- Module contributes to fulfilling the QAA level 4 Certificate of Higher Education qualification descriptor.
Level 2
- Module contributes to fulfilling the QAA level 5 Foundation Degree qualification descriptor.
Level 3
- Module contributes to fulfilling the QAA level 6 Bachelor's Degree with Honours qualification descriptor.
Level 4
- Module contributes to fulfilling the QAA level 7 Master's Degree qualification descriptor.
Level 5
- Module contributes to fulfilling the QAA level 8 Doctoral Degree qualification descriptor.
Where only a portion of a module contributes to fulfilling a qualification descriptor at a particular level, the module may still be ascribed at that level, so long as the contribution made is appreciable.
Historically, some modules will have appeared as Levels A, B, C, and D.  For the purposes of comparison Level A modules may be treated as Level 2 modules, Level B modules may be treated as Level 3 modules, Level C and D modules may be treated as Level 4 modules.
Additional links
For more information about the University's Qualification Frameworks, please consult the following
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
The Quality Assurance Agency Qualification Framework
Framework for Professional Doctorates
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
08 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/academic-regulations/frame-professional-doct.aspx
Header: Framework for Professional Doctorates
Intro: This page contains the University's Framework for Professional Doctorates and is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Framework for Professional Doctorates - The University of NottinghamFramework for Professional Doctorates
This page contains the University's Framework for Professional Doctorates and is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Framework for Professional Doctorates
Includes:
descriptors
Professional Doctorates are regarded by the University of Nottingham as research degrees. Qualifications which fall within the Framework for Professional Doctorates will in general terms satisfy the following qualification descriptor:
Doctorates are awarded to students who have demonstrated:
i)
The creation and interpretation of new knowledge, through original research or other advanced scholarship, of a quality to satisfy peer review, extend the forefront of the discipline, and merit publication;
ii)
A systematic acquisition and understanding of a substantial body of knowledge which is at the forefront of an academic discipline or area of professional practice;
iii)
The general ability to conceptualise, design and implement a project for the generation of new knowledge, applications or understanding at the forefront of the discipline, and to adjust the project design in the light of unforeseen problems;
iv)
A detailed understanding of applicable techniques for research and advanced academic enquiry.
Typically, holders of the qualification will be able to:
(a)
Make informed judgements on complex issues in specialist fields, often in the absence of complete data, and be able to communicate their ideas and conclusions clearly and effectively to specialist and non-specialist audiences;
(b)
Continue to undertake pure and/or applied research and development at an advanced level, contributing substantially to the development of new techniques, ideas, or approaches;
and will have:
(c)
The qualities and transferable skills necessary for employment requiring the exercise of personal responsibility and largely autonomous initiative in complex and unpredictable situations, in professional or equivalent environments.
Regulations
Includes:
qualifications for the degree; course of study; taught component; reassessment; interim awards; programme design, development and approval; thesis or final assessment to be completed satisfactorily to qualify for the award of the Professional Doctorate; award of qualification; failure
When drafting Regulations for a specific Professional Doctorate, Schools should take account of the following:
1 Qualifications for the Degree
Admissions criteria: standard wording would be as follows:
A candidate for the …….. degree must:
(a)
Be a graduate of this or any other approved university holding a Bachelor’s degree (normally first or second class Honours or equivalent) and normally holding an appropriate Master's degree from this or any other approved university or
(b)
Hold such other qualifications as may, on the recommendation of the School, be deemed by the University to be equivalent to the qualifications referred to in (a).
Schools should then consider whether they need to include any subject-specific qualification criteria as appropriate.
2 Course of Study
Students for the degree of …. must have pursued in this University a full- or part-time course of study comprising a taught component and one or more major research projects. The minimum period of registration for this programme will be two years full-time supervised study or four years part-time study (with the normal periods being three years full-time or six years part-time study). Students will also be entitled to a thesis pending period on completion of their period of registered study (one year for full-time students, two years for part-time students).
3 Taught Component
Regulations should cover the following information:
(a)
The number of taught credits students are required to complete satisfactorily; students on a Professional Doctorate course must take a minimum of 120 credits and all modules taken must be at level 4 or 5.
(b)
The time limit by which taught modules should be completed (e.g. by the end of the first year for full-time students or by the end of the second year for part-time students). Regulations should also state that students should select modules in consultation with their supervisor(s) or that choice of modules is subject to approval by the Programme Convenor.
(c)
If available, the regulations should list the titles, codes and weighting of taught modules to be taken as part of the programme. If appropriate, further information on the form of assessment to be undertaken can also be included.
(d)
The minimum pass mark for taught modules on a Professional Doctorate is 50%.
(e)
If compensation is allowed for failing any of the taught modules, this should also be stated. Likewise, if students satisfy requirements for the taught component by achieving an average of 50% overall, this should also be stated.
(f)
It may be that some Schools will wish to include an element of generic research training by requiring students to take courses offered from within the Research Training Programme run by the Researcher Academy (or equivalent). In this case, regulations should cover requirements for satisfying completion of this part of the course (i.e. that students would be expected to obtain certificates for each course certifying at least 70% attendance).
4 Re-assessment
Regulations should also contain information on re-assessment for the information of students. A general paragraph could read as follows:
Students who fail to satisfy the Examiners in any of the modules which are part of the taught component may be re-examined on such terms as the Academic Board, on the recommendation of the School, may decide. Students may normally be re-examined on one occasion only.
5 Interim Awards
Schools may wish to consider whether it would be appropriate for an interim award to be available for students, though this would only be an option where the taught element of the programme was sufficiently large to enable students to qualify for such an award under University Regulations for Taught Postgraduate Degrees (60 credits for a Postgraduate Certificate, 120 credits for a Postgraduate Diploma and 180 credits for a Master’s qualification). If so, this option should be covered as follows:
Students who complete successfully the taught element but who do not successfully complete the thesis may be awarded a Postgraduate Certificate/Diploma/MA.
If such taught awards are not already in existence, it will be necessary for the School to complete a programme specification for approval as with any other taught course. For more information, please consult the following:
Programme design, development and approval
6 Thesis or final assessment to be completed satisfactorily to qualify for the award of the Professional Doctorate
Guidance for this part of the regulations should cover the following factors:
The required word limit for the dissertation or other form of assessment which contributes towards the final award of the qualification; the University’s expectation is that this component will be around 50,000 words in length
Any extra requirements for a particular course
The academic criteria which the final assessment should satisfy
Reference to the requirement that the work has been mainly carried out while the student has been registered for the degree
The standard deadline by which students are expected to submit their thesis or other form(s) of assessment (ie up to one calendar year after completion of the period of supervised study for full-time students, and two calendar years for part-time students).
7 Award of Qualification
Schools should liaise with Student Services over the appointment of External Examiners with regard to the assessment of the modules comprising the taught element of the programme.
It may be appropriate in some instances to consider how the thesis component of the course should be examined and whether it would be appropriate for an additional External Examiner (an expert practitioner in the field, for example) to be appointed in addition to an Internal Examiner and an External Examiner.
Regulations should include a standard paragraph as follows:
The degree of …. will be conferred on students who have completed the taught programme, submitted a thesis [or other form of assessment] in a form and of a standard as outlined above [plus any other requirements which the particular qualification requires]. Students are required to present themselves for a viva voce examination to be conducted by one internal (academic) Examiner, one external (academic) Examiner plus any further examiner as deemed appropriate for the particular qualification.
Failure
The standard wording for this regulation should be as follows:
“A student for the degree of … whose thesis fails to satisfy the Examiners may be allowed to:
(a)
make minor corrections to the thesis to the satisfaction of the internal (academic) Examiner; or
(b)
to represent the same thesis and attend a second viva voce examination; or
(c)
to represent the thesis in a revised form and take the whole examination; or
(d)
to represent the thesis without taking the whole examination.
A student proceeding under this regulation shall normally be required to pursue a further course of directed study for a specified period that will not normally exceed one calendar year.”
Again, where the assessment is in an alternative format to a thesis, the wording should be amended as appropriate.
The possibility of being offered another award, when the Doctorate requirements are not met as a result of failure of the research component, should also be covered at this point.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
24 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/academic-regulations/statement-of-compatibility-with-ehea.aspx
Header: Statement of compatibility with the European Higher Education Area
Intro: This page contains the Statement of Compatibility with the European Higher Education Area. Its content may be of interest to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Statement of compatibility with the European Higher Education Area - The University of NottinghamStatement of compatibility with the European Higher Education Area
This page contains the Statement of Compatibility with the European Higher Education Area. Its content may be of interest to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Statement of Compatibility with the European Higher Education Area
Includes:
key links and documentation
The University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (UNQF) has been drafted to be fully compatible with the national framework in England, as well as the qualifications framework adopted at the Bergen Summit of the Bologna Process for the creation of a European Higher Education Area (EHEA).
The Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) has independently confirmed that the FHEQ is compatible with the Framework for Qualifications of the European Higher Education Area (FQ EHEA).
For more information, please consult the following:
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
European Higher Education Area
Quality Assurance Agency
Links to important documentation:
UK Quality Code for Higher Education
How does the Bologna process work?
Cycles and requirements
Includes:
first cycle qualifications; second cycle qualifications; third cycle qualifications
The EHEA framework is divided into three cycles; below is an explanation of how University of Nottingham qualifications meet the requirements of each cycle.
1. First Cycle Qualifications
Honours degrees at the University of Nottingham are first cycle qualifications with outcomes that meet the relevant qualification descriptors of the UK Quality Assurance Agency and the EHEA. These degrees require a minimum of three years study full-time and are worth 180 ECTS credits. Honours degrees are awarded as various forms of Bachelor qualifications - Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Science (BSc), Bachelor of Engineering (BEng) etc.
2. Second Cycle Qualifications
There are three separate routes to second cycle qualifications at the University of Nottingham:
(a)
Taught Masters degrees at the University of Nottingham are second cycle qualifications with outcomes that meet the relevant qualification descriptors of the UK QAA and the EHEA. These degrees require a minimum of one year study full-time and are worth 90 or 120 ECTS credits. Taught Masters degrees are awarded as various forms of Master qualification - Master of Arts (MA), Master of Science (MSc), Master of Business Administration (MBA) etc.
(b)
Integrated Masters degrees at the University of Nottingham are second cycle qualifications with outcomes that meet the relevant qualification descriptors of the UK QAA and the EHEA. These degrees comprise a minimum of three years study full-time to complete a first cycle qualification, followed by a minimum of one year study full-time worth 60 or 90 ECTS credits to obtain the second cycle qualification. Integrated Masters degrees are awarded as various forms of Master qualification - Master in Engineering (MEng), Master in Science (MSci), Master of Pharmacy (MPharm) etc.
(c)
Research Masters degrees at the University of Nottingham are second cycle qualifications with outcomes that meet the relevant qualification descriptors of the UK QAA and the EHEA. These degrees comprise a minimum of one year study full-time and (if credit-bearing) are worth 90 ECTS credits. Research Masters degrees are awarded as various forms of Master qualification - Master of Philosophy (MPhil), Master of Research (MRes) etc.
3. Third Cycle Qualifications
Doctoral degrees at the University of Nottingham are third cycle qualifications with outcomes that meet the relevant qualification descriptors of the UK QAA and the EHEA. These degrees comprise a minimum of three years study and (if credit-bearing) are worth 270 ECTS credits. Doctoral degrees are awarded as various forms of Doctoral qualification - Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), Doctor of Education (EdD), Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) etc.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
24 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/student-engagement-and-representation/student-staff-fora.aspx
Header: Student Staff Fora
Intro: This page provides information on the Student Staff Fora and about how they provide a platform for the student voice. Student Staff Fora are the main academic representation and feedback system at the University of Nottingham and are jointly delivered by the University and the Students' Union (UoNSU)This information is relevant to staff and students across the UK campus.
Content:
Student Staff Fora - The University of NottinghamStudent Staff Fora
This page provides information on the Student Staff Fora and about how they provide a platform for the student voice. Student Staff Fora are the main academic representation and feedback system at the University of Nottingham and are jointly delivered by the University and the Students' Union (UoNSU)This information is relevant to staff and students across the UK campus.For information about the academic representation and feedback systems at the University of Nottingham campuses in Malaysia and China, follow the link below:
Learning Community Fora (UNNC)
Student Staff Fora (UNM)
Purpose
The purposes of the Student Staff Forum (SSF) are to:
To ensure that the feedback and concerns of students about their courses of study are discussed and that solutions/actions are co-created by student representatives and academic staff throughout the academic year;
To ensure that the views of students are given proper weight in the processes of course and module review;
To provide a forum for the exchange of ideas and information between the student body and the School in relation to their education and non-academic welfare.
To provide a forum for co-creation around areas of the school, department or division that have been raised.
There must be at least one SSF in each school, department or division; all students (including research students) must have an opportunity to contribute to its discussions, with separate Undergraduate and Postgraduate SSF where appropriate. The School, department or division can implement more Student Staff Fora than the minimum requirement, but this must be agreed by staff, student representatives and the Students' Union Student Voice Team before the start of the academic year.
Essential information
Includes
: general management; agendas, reports and action points
General
A Student Staff Forum (SSF) must meet at least three times in a 12-month period.
Each school, department or division should follow the terms of reference and Student Staff Forum guidance document on the composition of its SSF.
Course representatives are responsible for effectively collecting feedback from their fellow students, representing their views at meetings, and disseminating feedback from the meetings. Schools, departments and divisions should help to facilitate this by providing a mechanism for student representatives to email or contact in some other way their fellow students.
The Student Staff Forum must be co-chaired by the relevant Senior Course Representative and a staff member in the department, school or division.
Senior Course Representatives are responsible for collating feedback from the Course Representatives that are assigned to them. This is so that an agenda can be created by the Senior Course Representatives and Staff Co-Chair and distributed before the meeting.
Please note that training and development activities for student representatives are managed by the Students’ Union.
The Senior Course Representative and the Staff Co-Chair, or their delegates must be in attendance at every meeting. All Course Reps must be invited and should attend unless unable to do so.
Relevant staff can be invited to individual meetings based on the agenda under the discretion of the Senior Course Representative and the Staff Co-Chair.
The school, department or division should display the names and contact details of the representatives on the SSF, SSF Action Logs, external examiner reports and school responses to those reports on an appropriate forum that is clear and readily available to students (such as Moodle).
Agendas, reports and action points
The Senior Course Representative and the Staff Co-Chair set the Student Staff Forum agenda. There should be a simple mechanism for both staff and students to have items placed on the agenda for discussion.
All meetings must have an agenda that contains the key topics/issues for co-creation, as well as any other key information that needs to be distributed to and/or through Course Representatives.
After every meeting, and at the end of each Term, an Action Log should be distributed to all students in a school, department or division outlining the actions agreed within the relevant SSF by the Senior Course Representative and relevant University Staff as well as updated progress on each action.
The Student Staff Forum Action Log must be taken into consideration in the school's monitoring processes.
It is not expected that every action requested by student representatives will be implemented, but it is expected that they should be given proper consideration and the grounds for non-implementation should be explained.
For more information, please consult the following:
Student Staff Forum Action Log Template
Student Staff Forum Agenda Template
Student Staff Forum Terms of Reference
Student Staff Forum Guidance Document
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
01 August 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-responsibilities-of-school.aspx
Header: Responsibilities of the School
Intro: This page explains the role and responsibilities of all Schools as regards postgraduate research students, including supervision arrangements and monitoring progress. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Responsibilities of the School - The University of NottinghamResponsibilities of the School
This page explains the role and responsibilities of all Schools as regards postgraduate research students, including supervision arrangements and monitoring progress. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Please be aware that during academic year 2020/21, the University introduced additional guidance in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. This page was previously affected by these arrangements and has been documented accordingly.
Further details can be found in the "Additional guidance in 2020/21 due to Covid-19" section below.
1. Policy
Includes:
responsibilities
The University intends that Academic Schools will provide a study environment which will facilitate the successful completion of research studies undertaken by students.
These matters are the responsibility of the Head of School, or person with suitable designated authority, who is expected to action the following matters.
2. Ensure adequate supervision arrangements
Ensure that, before accepting a student to read for a higher degree by research, there is a suitably-qualified member of staff in the School to act as lead supervisor and the essential facilities and resources which the student requires to carry out their research are available and (as far as can reasonably be foreseen) that this supervision and these facilities and resources will continue to be available for the duration of the student's registered period of study; for part-time students studying at a distance it is the responsibility of the School to ensure that the student has access to necessary facilities and resources at their place of study.
3. Implement equal opportunities policy
Implement the University's statement on equal opportunities insofar as it relates to admission for and pursuance of research study.
4. Establish Safety Officer and Safety Committee
Appoint, as necessary, a Safety Officer and a Safety Committee, and demand rigorous attention to all safety matters related to the student's research activity.
The School should organise safety instruction for students as appropriate and may wish to appoint a Safety Adviser for special purposes. Such Advisers may be any member of staff suitably qualified for the purpose.
5. Designate a School Postgraduate Student Adviser
Includes:
responsibilities of the postgraduate student advisor
Designate a full-time member of staff to act as an independent School Postgraduate Student Adviser (SPSA). For more information, please consult the following:
Responsibilities of the Postgraduate Student Advisor
6. Allocate supervisor(s)
Includes:
expectations of supervisors; duration of supervision
Ensure that prior to or, exceptionally, within 4 weeks of their initial registration, every research student is allocated a supervisory team, containing at least two supervisors who:
have suitable academic qualifications and appropriate expertise in the agreed area of the student's research topic;
have an acceptable level of supervision experience;
are willing and able to undertake the job of supervisor;
are aware of the roles and responsibilities of a supervisor and;
have been suitably trained in supervision skills.
Supervision should continue for the duration of the student's registered period of research.
7. Provide School Handbook
Ensure that a School Handbook is written and distributed for their School.
This should supplement University documentation with information on special School facilities, services and local procedures, including information relevant to postgraduate study, such as research ethics and approval procedures, etc.
Note:
The School Handbook should reflect any School information or guidance for PGRs with relation to Covid-19 ways of working, etc.
8. Monitor Supervision Records
Put in place a system for storing and monitoring supervision records to ensure that the requisite number of supervisions has occurred and with appropriate regularity.
9. Make arrangements for seminars etc.
Organise and invite research students to colloquia, seminars and meetings relevant to their research work.
10. Monitor progress
Monitor, from time to time, the supervision and progress of students in their Schools with particular reference to the completion of theses and provide the University with such information if requested to do so.
11. Approve upgrading
The Head of School should receive, consider and approve as appropriate recommendations from supervisors and Internal Assessors that students' registration on MPhil or doctoral programmes be confirmed or amended and shall make recommendations accordingly to the University.
12. Allocate Internal Assessors
Allocate Internal Assessors to research students specifically for the purpose of the Annual Reviews.
13. Nominate External Examiners
Submit the names of suitable individuals to the University for approval as Internal and External Examiners for research degrees.
Additional guidance in 2020/21 due to Covid-19
Please be aware that the following guidance was developed and applied during academic year 2020/21 in response to the coronavirus pandemic. These additional responsibilities were specific to Heads of School, Supervisors and Directors of PGR Programmes and should be read in conjunction with all other content on this page:
Responsibilities of the Head of School, Supervisor and Director of PGR Programme - Additional guidance for the 2020-21 academic year in response to Covid-19
This guidance appeared alongside the University's Exceptional Regulations that were developed and applied in response to the coronavirus pandemic.
For more information about the Exceptional Regulations as a whole, please consult the following:
Exceptional Regulations: Covid-19 - 2019/20 - 2020/21
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 June 2023||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/studies-away-from-university/partnerships-and-placements.aspx
Header: Partnerships and placements
Intro: No intro paragraph found
Content:
Partnerships and placements - The University of NottinghamPartnerships and placements
This page provides guidance on different types of partnership arrangements, as well as the University's guidelines on placement learning. This information is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses and may also be of interest to external partners.1.0 Purpose
The University of Nottingham’s guidelines for the approval of collaborative provision arrangements have been drafted to align with relevant guidance provided by the Quality Assurance Agency. For more detailed information, please consult the relevant page of the QAA website in Section 5 below.
The sections "Approval of partnership arrangements" to "Types of collaboration" (below) only apply to partnerships leading to the award of a University of Nottingham qualification as set out in the University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (UNQF). For more information about the UNQF, please consult the link below.
For information about other types of partnership, please see the section entitled "Partnerships not leading to a University of Nottingham qualification" further down this page.
2.0 Key Principles
For all partnership arrangements (as opposed to placement learning opportunities), a Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) must be signed on behalf of the University by an authorised member of University Executive Board (UEB) on behalf of Education and Student Experience Committee (ESEC) or (in regard to relevant postgraduate agreements) by Research and Graduate Services.
Teaching collaborations with other institutions must follow University of Nottingham procedures and approvals to ensure they meet quality standards, regulatory requirements and diligence checks as outlined within the Quality Manual. We will endeavour to conclude agreements so that all campuses are included.
All teaching and assessment of students who are registered for a University of Nottingham qualification must be in English. The only exception is where the subject of study is a language or literature other than English.
2.1 International campuses
Both University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM) and University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC) award University of Nottingham degrees. As such, the Higher Education (HE) provision is regulated by UK regulators and Malaysian or Chinese HE regulators respectively. UNM and UNNC must therefore meet UK quality standards in addition to any local ones.
2.2 Types of Collaboration
The following types of collaboration constitute an exhaustive list and no other types of collaboration leading to a University of Nottingham qualification (that is to say, franchises and validations) will be permitted.
2.2.1 Progression
Progression arrangements enable students who have successfully completed study at one organisation to be considered for entry (individually) onto the beginning of a University of Nottingham programme.
The two separate components are the responsibility of the respective organisations delivering them. Students normally have a contractual relationship with the organisation which delivers the first component and subsequently with the University of Nottingham.
2.2.2 Articulation
Articulation agreements enable all students who satisfy academic criteria on one programme to be admitted with advanced standing to a subsequent stage of a programme at the University of Nottingham (these are usually 2+2 arrangements but can also be in other forms).
These arrangements are subject to formal agreements between the parties and normally involve credit accumulation and transfer, so that credit achieved for the approved study at the first provider is transferred to contribute to the programme and award completed at the University of Nottingham.
The two separate components are the responsibility of the respective organisations delivering them but, together, contribute to a single University of Nottingham award. Students normally have a contractual relationship with the organisation which delivers the first component and subsequently with the degree-awarding body.
2.2.3 Off-campus delivery
In an off-campus delivery model, teaching is provided entirely by University of Nottingham staff, but delivery occurs away from any of the University's campuses and the provision of facilities (for example, teaching accommodation, library and IT resources, administrative support and others) is undertaken partly or wholly by the partner institution.
2.3.4 Joint award
Joint Award is an arrangement under which two or more awarding bodies together provide a programme leading to a joint award (single certification) made jointly by both, or all, participants, replacing separate institutional or national qualifications.
2.3.5 Dual award
This is an arrangement involving more than one degree awarding body working together to offer a jointly conceived programme but usually designed in a way to enable students to achieve more than one distinct set of criteria.
A student may not need to satisfy the requirements of all partners to receive an award. Students who successfully complete both programmes receive separate institutional or national certificates, one for each of the two separate qualifications, granted by each of the awarding bodies involved. Those qualifications can be at different levels.
2.3.6 Joint supervision
University of Nottingham staff and staff of the partner institution jointly deliver supervision of multiple numbers of postgraduate research students registered with the University of Nottingham and studying for a Nottingham qualification only. This may include some element of off-campus delivery.
The additional information available in the Teaching Partnership Handbook outlines the quality assurance issues and financial considerations to be borne in mind when considering whether to establish a partnership arrangement.
2.3 Partnerships not leading to a University of Nottingham qualification
This section applies to teaching-related partnerships that use the University of Nottingham brand but which do not involve the award of a qualification listed in the University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (UNQF). see below for link.
Such partnerships must have a Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) or other contractual document that  follows the normal MoA template in all relevant matters, must involve consultation by way of Partnership Operational meetings if University of Nottingham student status is being granted to participants in the partnership, and be approved as follows:
CPD partnerships of this type must be approved by the Director of Legal Services
Pre-degree foundation or access partnerships must be approved by the Chair of Foundation Year Committee
Any other partnerships of this type not leading to the award of a University of Nottingham qualification, and not covered above, must be referred to the Quality and Standards team for consideration of the most appropriate signatory.
2.4 Placement learning
The University of Nottingham’s policy for placement learning is intended to be sufficiently broad to cover all types of work-based or study-based arrangements at the University and outlines the minimum requirements which schools and professional services are expected to meet in arrangements for exchange or placement learning.
It is not intended to cover learning outside the University which is not a planned part of a programme of study, such as voluntary placements, part-time, term-time and vacation work which students have arranged for themselves. For more information about such activities, please consult the Careers and Employability Service using the link below.
2.4.1 Types of placement
Within the University of Nottingham there are several different types of placement learning for students on undergraduate and postgraduate taught courses. These are:
2.4.2 Academic placements
Undertaking study overseas as part of a university or language school programme.
2.4.3 Work and industrial placements
To gain work and industrial experience relevant to the course or aligned to an area of career interest.
2.4.4 Practice placements
To develop the practical skills and competencies that will be required for practice in a profession or other employment.
2.4.5 Language assistantships
Working at a school abroad to improve knowledge of a foreign culture and language.
The method of assessment or credit rating of the placement varies between courses and must be outlined in the school guidelines. On some placements students are assessed and gain credits which count to their final award, whilst on other placements there are no credits awarded but completion of the placement is required in order to meet progression requirements.
2.5 Marks and credit transfer for students on study abroad placements at educational institutions
Where students participate in periods of study abroad at another educational institution which result in the award of marks and credit by the partner institution, the University undertakes to provide arrangements for the consistent transfer of credit and marks to Nottingham for the purpose of calculating final degrees.
This will ensure that students on international exchanges are neither advantaged nor disadvantaged in relation to peers remaining in Nottingham.
For more information, please consult the Credit and Grade Transfer Policy (linked below)
2.6 Partnership history
A list of live and historical partnerships is maintained on the Collaborative Provision Register (hosted on Workspace), and linked to below.
3.0 Standard Operating Procedure - Roles and Responsibilities
3.1 Roles and Responsibilities for Partnerships
See procedural steps section below
3.2 Roles and Responsibilities for Placements
3.2.1 Responsibilities of the School
3.2.1.1 Information for students
Schools must inform eligible students at an appropriate stage of exchange or placement opportunities offered by the school.
Schools must ensure that students are adequately informed about the procedures for securing, approving and allocating exchange and placements and if applicable define their procedures and criteria for approval of individual opportunities.
Schools must ensure that procedures are in place to inform students where requests to undertake exchange or placements have not been approved. Where consultation with professional services departments is required, all involved must be kept fully informed and notified of any outcome.
Schools must ensure that they have sufficient up-to-date information about each of their partner institutions and placement providers for dissemination to interested students.
Where relevant, students must be informed in detail about the programme of language study which is required, and about language study facilities at the University.
Schools must ensure that students are adequately informed about the academic requirements of the exchange or placement learning period and, if applicable, how the marks obtained will be processed and incorporated into their degree classification.
Students must be aware of the procedures for claiming extenuating circumstances.
Students must be informed about the consequences of failure to secure or fully attend and complete an exchange or placement.
Learning Agreements, Practice Action Plans and Student Work Training Approval forms (as appropriate) must be concluded with the student prior to departure.
It is good practice for Schools to ensure that students
are
adequately informed about any induction and registration procedures at the placement provider or partner institution.
Schools must ensure that the student is aware of relevant health and safety, insurance, personal safety and cultural information.
Students must be provided with full contact details for the members of staff who will be responsible for them during their exchange/placement learning period both in the school and at the placement provider or partner institution.
Students must be provided with information about the University’s support services that will remain available to them during the exchange or placement and about the procedures in place if an emergency arises.
Schools must ensure that students are aware of the University’s complaints procedures and that these must be used if students wish to make a complaint regarding their exchange or placement.
3.2.1.2 Information to staff
Schools must ensure that staff responsible for exchange or placement learning activities are adequately trained to meet the needs of their role.
Placement providers and partner institutions must be informed of the mechanism for making complaints.
Schools must ensure that the placement provider or partner institution has been provided with information about the student by the deadline required by the placement provider or partner institution.
Schools must ensure that Registy and Academic Affairs or equivalent and the Global Oppertunities team have been informed of the students who will be undertaking a study abroad exchange period or placement and that these offices are notified immediately of any subsequent changes
.
3.2.1.3 Regarding the rights and responsibilities of students
Schools must inform students of their responsibilities:
To maintain contact with their home school and tutor or study abroad contact (as appropriate) in accordance with any agreed arrangements prior to commencement of the exchange or placement;
As representatives of the University;
Towards the placement provider or partner institution and its customers, clients, patients, service users, employees and the general public. This can include complying with the laws of the host country to which they will be subject during their stay, maintaining appropriate dress or uniform code and maintaining punctuality, reliability and professional conduct;
For managing their learning and professional relationships;
For recording their progress and achievements;
For alerting the placement provider or partner institution and their home school to problems with the exchange or placement that might prevent the progress or satisfactory completion of the exchange or placement.
Schools must inform students of their rights:
To a safe exchange or placement environment;
To the existence of any support services available to them during their stay in the host country; and
To be treated in accordance with applicable legislation.
3.2.1.4 Information for students who have a disability
Schools have a responsibility to ensure that the needs of students who have a disability and who are participating in exchanges or placements are considered to departure and that appropriate support is available before, during and after their placements.
3.2.1.5 Regarding the responsibilities of placement providers and partner institutions
Schools must be able to assure themselves that placement providers and partner institutions know what their responsibilities are during the period of exchange or placement learning including their roles in providing appropriate learning opportunities, the assessment of students and the health and safety of students.
Placement providers and partner institutions must also be informed of the mechanism for making complaints.
4.0 Standard Operating Procedure - Procedural Steps
4.1 Approval of partnership arrangements
The University has a three-stage approach to approval and review of teaching partnerships and formulation of Memoranda of Agreement (MoA) as follows:
4.1.1 Stage 1 – Approval of partner
Approval of all partners and partnerships is subject to support being received from the relevant Head of School(s) and, in the case of partnerships involving University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM) or University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC), the relevant Vice-Provost(s) for Teaching and Learning.
If certain criteria are met, the approval of the partner will be automatic. For all other cases within the UK, the approval of the partner must be given by the relevant Associate Pro-Vice Chancellor (APVC).
For partnerships involving only an international campus, the role of APVC will be undertaken by an equivalent representative (on that campus) in consultation with the Vice-Provost for Teaching and Learning and the International Partnerships team in the UK. This approval will be granted on the basis of consideration of a Partnership Concept Paper (PCP) prepared by the International Partnerships team and/or the relevant school.
4.1.2 Stage 2 – Discussion of the basis for the partnership and formulation of Memoranda of Agreement
The depth of scrutiny involved in approval of the basis for the partnership will vary depending on the type of partnership and whether it was necessary for a Partnership Concept Paper (PCP) to be considered.
Please be aware that templates already exist for standard regulatory, quality assurance, administrative, financial and legal arrangements for each of the types of partnerships.
Schools will liaise with the International Partnerships team (for international partnerships) or Student Services Development (for home partnerships) to draft a Memorandum of Agreement (MoA), using those templates.
For partnerships involving an international campus only, the role of UK professional services departments will be undertaken by the equivalent units on that campus, under the supervision of the Vice-Provost for Teaching and Learning.
During the final stages of development, documentation will be presented at the tri-campus Partnerships Operational Meeting for comment – this will include representatives from other professional services from the relevant campuses – for example, Student Services Delivery, Curriculum, Admissions, Specialists Processes, Graduate School, and Quality and Standards.
4.1.3 Stage 3 – University level approval by Quality and Standards Committee
Following consultation at the Partnerships Operational meeting, Student Services Development (Academic Processes) will provide the Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) with a commentary containing background information about the proposed arrangement, as well as any supporting documentation, to a relevant representative of Quality and Standards Committee (QSC).
If satisfied, the QSC member will:
Recommend to the Pro-Vice Chancellor (PVC) for Global Engagement for international partnership or;
Recommend to the PVC for Education and Student Experience (or other authorised member of the University's Executive Board (UEB)) for home partnership or;
Recommend to Research and Graduate Services (in regard to relevant postgraduate agreements); that the MoA be signed.
If substantial quality and standards issues are deemed to exist, the member of QSC may choose to refer the matter to the whole committee. Once a recommendation to approve the MoA has been made by QSC, the International Partnerships team will arrange for the signing of international MoAs and another relevant professional service (for example, either Research and Graduate Services or Research and Innovation) will undertake this role in the case of UK MoAs.
For more information about QSC, please consult the Quality and Standards Committee page linked below.
4.1.4 Reviews of partnership
Partnership programmes are subject to annual monitoring and Periodic Assurance and Continous Enhancement Reviews (PACERs) in the same manner as the University’s other programmes. In addition, the partnership is subject to review whenever a Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) requires renewal (the maximum period for an MoA is five years).
For MoAs lasting less than three years, a renewal review is not needed if the initial approval or a review has occurred within the last three years. Further information about renewal reviews for MoAs is available from the Teaching Partnership Handbook.
For more information about our monitoring processes, please consult the Programme monitoring and review (linked below)
4.2 Approval for Placement learning
4.2.1 Approval of placement providers
Resources have been made available to help staff with setting up and obtaining approval for exchange programmes and placements, including the Student Services Documentation Hub, an area of Workspace and the University of Nottingham Safety Office – Placements webpage.
This covers the considerations to be taken into account when establishing a new exchange or placement, including the need to undertake a risk assessment for the potential exchange or placement at the outset and ensure the school can provide appropriate support and information for the assistance of students planning to undertake an exchange or placement.
To access the Partnership development Workspace, please use the following link (entering your university username and password when prompted):
For more information about placement considerations, please consult the Safety Office Website, Placements section (see link below)
Schools must ensure that appropriate internal mechanisms are in place to monitor and evaluate placement providers and partner institutions and the learning opportunities offered. These due diligence procedures will be proportionate to the complexity and volume of the exchange or placement provision being offered.
4.2.2 Pre-placement preparation
Students who undertake a UK based placement off campus during their studies will be hosted by a placement provider, e.g. the NHS for health sciences students. Students on placement are expected to adhere to the policies and practices of their host organisation and the requirements of workplace based assessments, including specified working days and working hours. As part of pre-placement preparation within Schools and at the placement provider, students will be advised on Equality, Diversity and Inclusion issues within the workplace, legal requirements of the placement provider and issues around the dignity of the customer/patient.
Students undertaking placement work overseas will also receive preparation on the cultural expectations and differences in the host environment. Students are strongly advised to make themselves aware of the different cultural context in which they will be required to undertake their learning, assessment or research.
4.2.3 Adjustment to placement on religious grounds
Students wishing to request an adjustment to their placement on religious grounds must contact their home School at the earliest possible opportunity, and prior to the start of the placement, to discuss this. It will then be for the home School to assess and approve any adjustment and to liaise with the placement provider as necessary.
The placement provider will take account of business needs and current policies and practices in reaching a decision and it cannot be assumed that the placement provider will grant permission. In some cases it will not be possible, due to legitimate reasons, for a religious observance request to be granted yet still necessary for a student to continue in the placement or with other work related learning.
4.3 General Principles
Schools must include information about exchange or placement learning in their programme specifications for relevant courses. This must include intended learning outcomes (which must be related to the programme learning outcomes) monitoring and review procedures and methods of assessment.
The school must consider whether any assessment of exchange or placement learning is covered by their arrangements for internal moderation and external examining and whether the standards which are applied to any assessment of exchange or placement learning are consistent with available subject benchmarks and other relevant reference points and, where appropriate, fulfil professional or regulatory body requirements. Agreements with placement providers and partner institutions must also include information on requirements (academic or otherwise) for passing the placement, and consequences of failure.
Where the exchange or placement learning is replacing learning that would otherwise take place within the University, schools must ensure that by the end of their studies the students will have achieved the learning outcomes set out in the relevant programme specification. It is therefore necessary for schools to assure themselves that the choice of subjects taken during the exchange or placement enables the integrity of the programme to be maintained as well as ensuring that the level and volume of study and the assessment of it warrants the award of the same number of credits as are being missed at the University.
Where the partner institution or placement provider does not offer learning that delivers required learning outcomes that are not met by other parts of the student's programme, the school may require the student to undertake additional work during their exchange or placement or to take particular modules on their return to the University to achieve those learning outcomes. Any constraints on the allowed learning during a period of exchange or placement must be clearly stated in the relevant programme specification.
4.3.1 During placement learning
All schools must:
require students to keep in regular contact with the school during their placement period in order to review their progress. This could be facilitated by e-mail communication. In addition it is recommended that academics or other agreed members of staff within the school or professional services department aim to visit students during the placement period.
Give students information about their subsequent period of study back at the University, particularly any regulation changes.
4.3.2 Post-exchange or placement learning
All Schools must:
monitor and periodically review their exchange and placement policies and procedures in order to evaluate their effectiveness in providing intended learning outcomes and meeting appropriate levels of quality and standards.
seek formal or informal feedback from the partner institution or placement provider.
It is good practice to:
encourage students to write a brief evaluation of their experiences at the partner institution or placement provider and country (if applicable) in order to provide user-friendly advice for future students.
consider holding information events for future students, using the returning students, and consider asking returners to help integrate incoming students from partner institutions.
remind students to complete reports, receipts and contracts relating to the student grant as applicable
4.4 Marks and credit transfer for students on study abroad placements at educational institutions
While the management of the credit transfer process is the responsibility of Student Services, schools are responsible for carrying out the mark translation using the approved translation tables. Oversight of the processes is devolved to the Credit and Grade Translation Committee (CGTC) which is a sub-committee of Quality and Standards Committee (QSC).
4.4.1 Setting up agreements
The ownership of an exchange scheme or approval of a university wide partner for student exchange  rests at School level. It is good practice for School Teaching Committees (or equivalent) to play a role in the development of links and the approval of the workload of individual students.
When developing exchange agreements at a School level, Schools must follow the guidelines/regulations issued by Student Services and submit a Quality Assurance Checklist as part of the Due Diligence process. Where an exchange scheme is being established with a new host university (i.e. one with no history of exchanges with University of Nottingham), the Quality Assurance Checklist as part of the Due Diligence process will record the assessment process at the partner and resit process, as applicable. This will be reported to the CGTC with reference to approved policies in the destination country and a proposed mark translation table.
4.4.2 Credit and Grade Transfer Committee
The Credit and Grade Transfer Committee (CGTC) is a sub-committee of QSC. The committee’s remit is to review the operation of the credit transfer process, including the detailed scrutiny of the conversion tables and to receive reports from Exam Boards. Schools and Student Services may refer any issues that arise from their application (and any other aspect of the policy) with a view to updating the tables as appropriate. The CGTC will be chaired by a member of QSC and have representation from each Faculty and from all three campuses. The CGTC will report on its activity to the October meeting of QSC.
4.4.3 Credit equivalence
All schools must define and document the amount of work to be undertaken by the student at the exchange institution which corresponds most closely to the number of credits required for that period of academic study at Nottingham.
This must be done by referring to the published guidelines of the CGTC and referring any queries to Student Services.
4.4.4 Mark translation
Student Services will support the work of CGTC by maintaining a mark translation table for each host institution and the use of these tables in converting the unit marks supplied by the host into marks to be returned for the student’s record is now mandatory. Schools are responsible for applying these translation tables to generate marks for each student. These marks must be approved by the appropriate Examination Board.
Where an Examination Board believes that the application of the translation table produces an unfair outcome for an individual student or group of students, they must make a case to QSC to allow an outcome outside of regulations.
Schools must submit an annual report to the CGTC describing any issues arising from the application of the credit & grade transfer process. This report must include:
suggestions (with justification) for modifications to the mark translation tables;
any concerns around the handling of extenuating circumstances by the host institution;
any practical issues that arise from re-assessment of failed modules;
any other issues that may require changes to the terms of the exchange agreement.
A standard report pro-forma will be provided to School Examinations Officers by Student Services.
4.4.5 Extenuating Circumstances
Schools must ensure that host institutions report on how any extenuating circumstances (EC) experienced by students on an exchange have been dealt with. These reports must be considered by a School EC panel. If the actions taken by the host institution are not considered to be appropriate by the EC panel, they may recommend further remediation in line with the University’s EC policy. In exceptional cases where this is still felt to lead to an unfair outcome for the student, a case to QSC must be made for an outcome outside of regulations to be allowed. The relevant Board of Examiners must be made aware of the existence of such extenuating circumstances and the remediation agreed.
4.4.6 Student Learning Agreements
Schools must ensure that each student undertaking an exchange has an individual Learning Agreement that is approved by the School and the student prior to their final commitment to undertaking the exchange.
Learning Agreements must include the following elements:
a. A link to the conversion tables(s) to be used.
b. An explicit allocation of University of Nottingham credits to each module (or equivalent) to be taken at the host institution. It is good practice for students attending the same host institution to undertake a broadly equivalent workload to other Nottingham exchange students in the same subject area. Students who are spending one semester at an exchange institution normally take a minimum of 50 and a maximum of 70 credits worth of courses or modules at that institution.
c. Clear identification of any modules that will be treated as non-compensatable.
d. Clear information on the way that extenuating circumstances will be dealt with if they arise during the placement including links to the host institution’s relevant policies and a requirement to copy any correspondence (claims, outcomes etc) arising from the use of those policies to a named member of staff in the home school.
e. Clear information on re-assessment opportunities available if a fail mark be returned by the host institution. This must include, where appropriate, links to the host institution’s re-assessment policies. The available options for re-assessment are:
i. the re-assessment(s) are set, taken and marked by the host institution during the period of the exchange (requires the prior approval of the host institution);
ii. the re-assessment(s) are set and marked by the host institution but taken at the University of Nottingham after the end of the exchange (requires the prior approval of the host institution);
iii. the re-assessments(s) are set and marked by the student’s home school after the end of the exchange;
iv. the student is required to enrol on a substitute module at University of Nottingham in order to accrue the credits not gained during the placement. This may entail the student enrolling on extra credits during the next stage of their programme in order to complete the previous stage. Alternatively, it may mean that the student is unable to progress to the next stage until the requisite credits have been gained by taking the substitute module(s) as a part-time student.
Guidance on drafting Student Learning Agreements will be provided by the Global Engagement team.
4.4.7 Recording of credits and marks
The school must inform the Assessments Teams within Student Services of the allocation of credits to be taken by each individual student for the purposes of module registration and marks processing.
This must be done by completing the Credit Transfer Form. ‘Credit Transfer' modules will be created in the student record and assigned the appropriate amount of credit. The credit values of the modules must equate to Nottingham credit values (minimum of 10, and then multiples of 5).
When completing your credit transfer, please use the Credit Transfer Form (linked below)
Schools must arrive at a single mark for each unit of work (module equivalent) studied abroad. The marks must be recorded against the credit equivalent modules taken at the partner institution.
Please be aware that these will not apply to work and industrial
placements.
5.0 Related regulations, policies and procedures
UK Quality Code, Advice and Guidance: Partnerships
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
Careers and Employability Service
Credit and Grade Transfer Policy
Collaborative provision register – Workspace
To access the Workspace, please use the following link (entering your university username and password when prompted).
Quality and Standards Committee
Programme monitoring and review
Partnership development – Workspace
To access the Workspace, please use the following link (entering your university username and password when prompted).
University of Nottingham Safety Office Website – Placements
Credit Transfer Form
6.0 Version control table
Version control table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework based on content last modified on 03 November 2023.
QSC
August 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
03 September 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/admissions/admissions-procedures.aspx
Header: Admissions procedures
Intro: This page sets out the different admission procedures for all taught and research degrees. Its content is primarily aimed at prospective students based within the UK but may also be of interest to staff across all of the University's campuses.
Content:
Admissions procedures - The University of NottinghamAdmissions procedures
This page sets out the different admission procedures for all taught and research degrees. Its content is primarily aimed at prospective students based within the UK but may also be of interest to staff across all of the University's campuses.Taught courses
Includes:
University admissions policy; factors in the selection process; key information
All Schools will admit students in line with the University’s admissions policy. Entry criteria are set by individual Schools and should be transparent and justifiable.
Consideration will be given as to whether applicants will be able to fulfil the objectives of the programme of study and achieve the standards required.
A range of factors additional to (and in some cases instead of) formal examination results is considered as part of the selection process. These factors can include:
The personal statement and reference
Additional evidence of achievement, motivation and potential as gathered through interview, additional tests (for example, the Law National Aptitude Test (LNAT) or the Graduate Australian Medical School Admissions Test (GAMSAT)) or assessment of written materials
Other factors as appropriate to the discipline, such as employment or volunteer work in relevant fields and sustained critical engagement with relevant issues
Contextual factors such as socio-economic and educational background
Since entry is competitive, achieving examination grades equivalent to or above the standard offer for a course does not automatically entitle a candidate to an offer.
Applications will not be considered from candidates who have previously registered for and been unsuccessful on the same course at the University of Nottingham for which the application is being made.
Application requirements
Includes:
Undergraduate; Postgraduate; handling and assessment
Undergraduate
For UK undergraduate entry, the requirements of the UCAS scheme will be observed;
For undergraduate entry to University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC), application is by way of the Gao Koa for Chinese nationals and by direct application for non-Chinese nationals;
For undergraduate entry to University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM), application is by way of direct application for all students
Postgraduate
For taught postgraduates, all applications are made directly to the appropriate campus
Handling and assessment
Procedures for handling applications may vary from subject to subject. Most offers are based purely on the information provided on the appropriate application form or at interview, and may be conditional on obtaining a certain standard in specified subjects in examinations.
In addition, Schools may, at their discretion, ask applicants to attend for interviews, undertake supplementary assessments or provide examples of work. In such cases, the School should clearly explain how and why this will be used in assessing the candidate and treat all candidates on an equal and fair basis.
For more information about taught course application criteria, please consult the following:
Criteria for assessing applicants
Research degrees
Includes:
opportunities to meet potential supervisors; School responsibilities
Where practical, applicants should be offered the opportunity to meet potential supervisors to discuss research plans of mutual interest. Interviews may also be used in selection procedures.
A School must ensure that appropriate supervision and facilities will be available to support the proposed research project.
Prior to admission, all applicants should be provided with relevant information by the admitting School on research opportunities and facilities in their areas of interest and expertise – including information on start dates and training, together with all other relevant information.
Useful links
Make an enquiry
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Admissions Office
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK
Admission queries UNUK
UNNC
Admission queries UNNC
UNM
Admissions queries UNM
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
21 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-induction-and-training.aspx
Header: Induction and training
Intro: This page sets out the induction and training processes for Postgraduate research students. It's content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Induction and training - The University of NottinghamInduction and training
This page sets out the induction and training processes for Postgraduate research students. It's content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1. Policy
Includes:
training for registered students; role of supervisors
All registered research students should receive appropriate training to enable them to undertake and present research effectively and efficiently.
An induction programme, the timing and content of which reflects the diversity of needs of specific groups of research students (including part-time and newly arriving international students) should be delivered at the most appropriate levels (ie School or institutional level). Supervisors should ensure that new students will receive an induction programme appropriate to them.
The training programme should take account of an individual’s needs and comprise subject-specific training as well as training which leads to the acquisition of relevant transferable skills and generic research skills.
2. Induction programme
Includes:
information to be provided
The information to be provided as part of the induction programme should include:
general information about the institution and its postgraduate portfolio in the relevant subject(s);
the institution’s registration, appeals and complaints procedures, assessment requirements and research degree regulations;
the names and contact details of the student’s supervisor(s) and information about how supervisory arrangements work;
the institution’s research ethics and codes and those of relevant professional bodies and discipline groups, including consideration of issues concerning authorship and intellectual property;
the institution’s expectations of the independence and responsibilities of the student;
student support and welfare services such as counselling and advice centres;
a summary of the facilities that will be made available to the student, including the learning support infrastructure;
Note:
Including any changes and restrictions on facilities and infrastructure due to Covid-19.
relevant health and safety and other legislative information;
Note:
Including those relating to Covid-19
where appropriate, a brief outline of the proposed research programme, together with the normal length of study and the facilities that will be made available to the student;
reference to the research and personal challenges that research students typically encounter during the course of their studies and where guidance may be sought in the event of difficulties;
Note:
This should include the particular challenges that may be presented whilst undertaking research with Covid-19 restrictions in place.
an opportunity for the student representative body to introduce themselves, including specific postgraduate representation;
social activity, including that provided specifically for postgraduates;
opportunities for postgraduates to be represented by the student body;
details of opportunities and requirements for skills development.
3. Identification of training needs
Includes:
role of the Head of School; consideration of planning and timetabling
It is the responsibility of Heads of Schools, in conjunction with supervisors and School Postgraduate Student Advisers (SPSAs), to identify the training needs for individual students, to ensure that these needs are met and to determine the means by which they are met.
It is recognised that needs will vary according to the student’s registration status (MPhil or doctoral, full-time or part-time) and according to each individual student’s previous experience. The training needs of part-time students should be considered in planning and timetabling, and they should be encouraged to participate in suitable courses.
For more information about the SPSAs, please consult the following:
Responsibilities of the Postgraduate Student Advisor
4. Subject-specific training
Includes:
School requirements; responsibility of the School
Students must satisfy the School’s requirements for research training. Failure to do so may result in the submission of an unsatisfactory annual report to the Head of School.
It is the responsibility of a student’s School to provide subject-specific training by means of, for example, attendance at taught theory or practical courses (either undergraduate or postgraduate), seminars, colloquia, conferences, etc.
At UNM students must have undertaken a research methodology course (which must encompass the broad approaches, methods and analyses in the field or discipline) or show evidence of attendance of any equivalent courses which support research in the field.
Schools should decide and inform the student at the outset of the training whether or not the student’s knowledge will be formally assessed at the conclusion of any subject-specific training.
5. Generic training
Includes:
provision by the Researcher Academy; researcher development framework; central short courses
It is the responsibility of the Researcher Academy to provide training and development ​opportunities which span the needs of different disciplines. This provision will address the requirements identified by the Research Councils and Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) in the Researcher Development Framework. Normally the training and development training will not be formally assessed.
Students can download certificates confirming their attendance at courses and workshops run by the Researcher Academy and other University training providers such as Health and Safety from the Central Short Courses website. The Researcher Academy will provide Schools with annual attendance information on students registered within the School.
For more information about Central Short Courses, please consult the following:
About Central Short Courses
6. Training record
All research students, in collaboration with their supervisors, should establish a full training record or portfolio to keep a record of personal progress, assess skills needs, record development of research and other skills, and supplement their curricula vitae.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
18 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-resources-and-facilities.aspx
Header: Resources and facilities
Intro: This page sets out the University's requirements in relation to the availability of study resources and facilities for Postgraduate research students. This information is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Resources and facilities - The University of NottinghamResources and facilities
This page sets out the University's requirements in relation to the availability of study resources and facilities for Postgraduate research students. This information is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1. Policy
Every research student should have reasonable access to the study facilities and equipment which are necessary to, and which will facilitate, the successful completion of their research studies.
Note:
Due to Covid-19 working practices there may be a need to reduce and manage access to research facilities, equipment and study spaces. An individual PGR's needs and access to research facilities will be managed through local prioritisation processes against clear criteria. Where changes in plans are required, supervisory teams will support PGRs to adopt alternative approaches that enable them to address the doctoral outcomes and progression requirements.
2. Ensure resources are available
Prior to the commencement of a research degree, the School should establish that the essential resources and facilities will be available when the student begins their research.
These resources and facilities may be offered either within the School or elsewhere within the University or (by agreement) in another institution or outside laboratory - and the student and supervisor shall have reasonable access to them.
Note:
If, as a result of Covid-19 restrictions on building occupancy and access to research facilities, it is likely that the required resources and facilities will not be available for use by a new PGR at the point when they are scheduled to commence their research degree, discussions should take place between the supervisor and PGR. These should consider the timeframe over which the resources will become available, what alternative research activity is possible in the interim and whether it would be appropriate for the PGR to defer entry.
3. If resources become unavailable
If in exceptional circumstances it becomes impossible to continue to provide these resources (for example, when a sponsor unexpectedly withdraws funding or equipment), the School should make reasonable efforts to identify alternative means of enabling the student to gain access to suitable facilities so that they may continue their studies at Nottingham.
However, this may mean that in some circumstances it may be necessary to advise that the student carries on their research work in co-operation with another institution.
Note:
If in exceptional circumstances access to specific resources and facilities is reduced or limited in capacity (for example, due to Covid-19 working practices) a local prioritisation process will be used to manage access to these. This may mean that in some circumstances, the PGR is unable to make as extensive use of these facilities and resources as they had originally planned. In such situations, supervisory teams will support PGRs to make changes to their research design and plans in order that they can address the doctoral outcomes and progression requirements.
4. Study space
Schools should ensure that a full-time research student (prior to entering the thesis pending period) should have an appropriate individual study space where the student can work and keep their books.
Note:
Due to Covid-19 occupancy levels and restrictions, access to on-campus study spaces will be limited and PGRs will be expected to undertake work from home/alternative locations wherever possible. Access to study spaces may need to be booked in advance.
5. Access to other facilities
Research students should also have reasonable access to the following. In some cases it may be possible to cover the costs from research grants relevant to the students' work:
5.1
Computing facilities: School or open-access University computing facilities. The opening hours of the University facility should be advertised in Schools and local arrangements concerning access to School facilities should be listed in the School Handbook.
5.2
Printing: Schools should offer a minimum of £50 p.a. to full-time research students and £25 p.a. to part-time research students to assist with the cost of draft printing for required reports.
5.3
Photocopying: Schools should offer a minimum of £50 p.a. to full-time research students and £25 p.a. to part-time research students to assist with photocopying costs.
5.4
Inter-library loans: Schools should offer a minimum of £50 p.a to full-time research students and £25 p.a. to part-time research students to assist with inter-library loans.
5.5
Telephones: Students should have access to a telephone which permits internal telephone calls and in-coming external calls.
5.6
Recreational area: where sufficient space has been provided to a School by the University, and where there is no suitable University or Students’ Union facility in the vicinity, the School should provide a recreational area. This need not be dedicated to research students but might be shared with other students and staff.
5.7
Other student services: The University will provide a range of other student services. For example, the Researcher Academy, the Accommodation Service, the Counselling Service, and the Centre for English Language Education.
Additional links (to key services)
Researcher Academy
Accommodation services
The University Counselling Services
Centre for English Language Education
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
18 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pol-pgr-mat-pat-adoption-leave.aspx
Header: Policy on PGR maternity,  paternity, and adoption leave
Intro: This page provides information on maternity, paternity and adoption leave arrangements for Postgraduate research students, including eligibility criteria, types of leave and returning to study. This may be of interest to staff and students from UK campuses only.
Content:
Policy on PGR maternity,  paternity, and adoption leave - The University of NottinghamPolicy on PGR maternity,  paternity, and adoption leave
This page provides information on maternity, paternity and adoption leave arrangements for Postgraduate research students, including eligibility criteria, types of leave and returning to study. This may be of interest to staff and students from UK campuses only.1. Introduction
Includes:
Policy on support for pregnant students and students with very young children document
1.1
This policy relates to the payment of postgraduate research studentship maintenance stipends during periods of maternity leave, paternity/maternity support leave, shared parental leave and adoption leave and applies to eligible postgraduate research students listed in 2.1 of the section below.
1.2
This policy should be read in conjunction with the Policy on support for pregnant students and students with very young children. Students should also refer to the Voluntary Interruption of Study and Extension to Thesis pending Policies specified in the Quality Manual, which can be found here:
Policy on support for pregnant students and students with very young children
Voluntary interruption of study
Thesis pending period (including policy on extension)
2. Postgraduate research student eligibility criteria for receiving maternity leave, paternity/maternity support leave, shared parental leave, and adoption leave stipend payments
2.1
Postgraduate research students in receipt of annual maintenance stipend funding from the following sources are eligible to receive stipend payments under this policy:
a)
Students who receive Research Council funded maintenance stipends;
b)
Students who receive University of Nottingham funded maintenance stipends.
2.2
Students are eligible:
a)
Whether registered on a full-time or part-time basis;
b)
From the point of initial registration on their programme;
c)
Where the first day of the period of leave falls within the funded period, or in the case of maternity leave where the expected date of delivery (EDD)* falls within the funded period, and for adoption leave where the date of adoption falls within the funded period;
* Referred to as ‘expected week of confinement’ in the Maternity Certificate (MAT B1) issued by a doctor or midwife.
d)
To receive stipend payments under this policy on multiple occasions.
2.3
Students who are funded from external sources administered by the University of Nottingham, may be eligible for some or all of the above type of payment subject to their funders’ terms and conditions.
2.4
The following groups of students are not eligible for receipt of stipend payments under this policy:
a)
Self-funded students;
b)
Postgraduate research students who receive an externally funded stipend directly from an external organisation. Such students must follow the processes of their funder. If the funder does not provide additional funds, the University is not liable to provide any payments under this policy. As such students are advised to carefully check the terms and conditions attached to their funding prior to accepting that funding, and to refer back to those terms and conditions as necessary;
c)
Students in receipt of bursaries or awards covering tuition fees only;
d)
Students who have been in receipt of funding (as specified in 2.2 above), but who are, or will be, outside of their funding period at the point at which their period of leave would commence.
2.5
Students who fall into the categories in 2.4 above, and who have financial concerns about taking a period of maternity leave, paternity/maternity support leave, shared parental leave or adoption leave are advised to contact the Student Funding and Financial Support team or Students’ Union for advice and support. Please note in all maternity cases, students will have to interrupt their studies for 2 weeks post-birth.
3. Types of leave
Includes:
maternity and adoption; paternity/maternity support; shared parental
3.1
Maternity and adoption leave:
Students are entitled to up to 52 weeks of maternity and adoption leave.
a)
The first 26 weeks will be paid at the student’s usual stipend rate;*
* Referred to as ‘expected week of confinement’ in the Maternity Certificate (MAT B1) issued by a doctor or midwife.
b)
The following 13 weeks will be paid at the Statutory Maternity Pay (SMP) rate as advised on the Gov.UK website at the start of the maternity leave;
c)
A further period of up to 13 weeks, which will be unpaid;
d)
The paid and unpaid periods of leave must be taken consecutively.
3.2
Paternity/maternity support leave:
a)
Students are entitled to up to 10 days of leave at the usual stipend rate.** These may be taken at any time during a partner's pregnancy or within three months following the birth;
** The full stipend rate is stipulated on the student’s offer or award letter, however, where a student has changed their registration status subsequent to this (e.g. changed from full-time to part-time registration) stipend payments under this policy will reflect the amount of stipend they were receiving in accordance with their registration status at the point at which an application for a period of interruption to cover a period of maternity, shared parental or adoption leave is made. Students should consult Student Services to check the arrangements for their individual award.
b)
Those entitled to this leave include the spouse, civil partner or partner of the person giving birth or primary adopter, who will share responsibility for the child’s upbringing.
3.3
Shared parental leave:
Students are entitled to up to 50 weeks of Shared parental leave.
(a)
The first 24 weeks will be paid at the full stipend rate;
(b)
The following 13 weeks will be paid at 41% of the full stipend rate;
(c)
A further period of up to 13 weeks which will be unpaid.
(d)
Those entitled to share parental leave are the person giving birth to the baby/the primary adopter and their spouse, civil partner or partner, who will share responsibility for the child’s upbringing.
These levels are commensurate with employee entitlements.
4. Identification of eligibility
Includes:
reference to funding offer letter; conflict
Students should refer to their funding offer letter and terms and conditions specified in it. Where there is a conflict between the eligibility criteria specified in this policy and the terms and conditions set out in a student’s offer or award letter, the terms and conditions set out in the offer or award letter take precedence, unless there is a clear conflict with the eligibility criteria specified in sections above, which would lead to a student being treated less advantageously than other students in receipt of comparable funding.
Where offer and award letters do not make specific reference to eligibility (which may be the case in some instances for students who entered prior to the 2018/19 academic year) the criteria specified in this policy should determine whether a student is eligible for receipt of stipend payments under this policy.
In any instance where a student’s eligibility is not clear, the relevant School’s Student Service Centre should be consulted in the first instance.
5. Process for application for a period of funded leave
Includes:
maternity, shared parental and adoption; paternity/maternity support
5.1
Maternity, shared parental and adoption leave:
A student must apply for a period of voluntary interruption to their study of the relevant length. This needs to have been approved in order for their maintenance funding and period of registered study to be extended commensurately. For more information, please consult the following:
Voluntary interruption of study
Postgraduate research maintenance stipend funding for approved periods of maternity, shared parental or adoption leave will be made to eligible students to cover the period of interruption for maternity, shared parental or adoption leave as specified in section 3 (Types of leave).
Students may be required to supply evidence to support the request for stipend funding under this policy. Sources of evidence will normally be those set out under the equivalent staff procedure. Students may also be required to provide sufficient notice of their intention to take a period of interruption on these grounds. For example, to apply for shared parental leave a student must give notice at least 8 weeks prior to the period of interruption, and as such students should discuss their intentions with their supervisor as early as possible.
Policy on support for pregnant students and students with very young children
5.2
Paternity/maternity support leave:
As the length for this leave is a maximum of 10 days, students will not normally be required to apply for a period of voluntary interruption of study, nor will their period of registered study and maintenance payments be automatically extended. However, if an extension to the expected submission date is required students may apply using the relevant policies. To be eligible for an extension in these circumstances a student must have disclosed their intention to take paternity/maternity support at the appropriate time.
6. Confidentiality
Students should note that every effort will be made to respect the confidential nature of any disclosure of information on these grounds.
However, in order to manage financial arrangements with regard to stipend payments during a period of leave, the University may need to disclose to external funders that the student has notified the University of their intention of applying for a period of interruption, which would result in payment of maintenance stipends under this policy.
7. Returning from a period of funded leave
Includes:
students who receive stipend payments; exceptional circumstances; failure to return
Students who receive stipend payments for periods of maternity, shared parental or adoption leave under this policy are expected to return to registered study.
However, it is recognised that in exceptional circumstances this may not be possible, in which case there is a minimum requirement to provide a detailed handover of their work to their supervisors immediately following the period of leave.
The University may reclaim all or part of the payment if the student fails to return to registered study or undertake such handover following the period of leave.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
20 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pol-pgr-sick-leave.aspx
Header: Policy on PGR sick leave
Intro: This page contains the University's policy on sick leave for Postgraduate research students, including eligibility, procedure and returning to study. Its content is only relevant to UK-based staff and students.
Content:
Policy on PGR sick leave - The University of NottinghamPolicy on PGR sick leave
This page contains the University's policy on sick leave for Postgraduate research students, including eligibility, procedure and returning to study. Its content is only relevant to UK-based staff and students.1. Introduction
Includes:
payment of studentship maintenance stipends; corresponding regulations
The policy relates to the payment of studentship maintenance stipends during periods of illness and applies to eligible full-time and part-time postgraduate research students listed in section 2 (Student eligibility criteria for receiving sick pay) below.
This policy should be read in conjunction with the University’s Regulations Governing Attendance and Engagement, and policies on Circumstances affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments and Interruption of Studies. For more information, please consult the following:
Regulations governing attendance and engagement
Policy on circumstances affecting students' ability to study and complete assessments
Voluntary interruption of study
2. Student eligibility criteria for receiving sick pay
Includes:
funding implications
2.1
Postgraduate research students in receipt of annual maintenance stipend funding from the following sources are eligible to receive stipend payments under this policy:
a)
Students who receive Research Council funded maintenance stipends;
b)
Students who receive University of Nottingham funded maintenance stipends.
2.2
Students are eligible:
a)
Whether registered on a full-time or part-time basis;
b)
From the point of initial registration on their programme;
c)
To receive stipend payments under this policy on multiple occasions subject to the terms below.
2.3
Students who are funded from external sources administered by the University of Nottingham, may be eligible for some or all of the above type of payment subject to their Funders’ terms and conditions.
2.4
The following groups of students are not eligible for receipt of stipend payments under this policy:
a)
Self-funded students;
b)
Postgraduate research students who receive an externally funded stipend directly from an external organisation. These students must follow the regulations of their funder. If the funder does not provide additional funds, the University is not liable to provide any payments under this policy. As such students are advised to carefully check the terms and conditions attached to their funding prior to accepting that funding, and to refer back to those terms and conditions as necessary;
c)
Students in receipt of bursaries or awards covering tuition fees only;
d)
Students who have been in receipt of funding (as specified in 2.1a and 2.1b above), but who are or will be outside of their funded period at the point at which their period of leave would commence.
3. Eligibility criteria for receiving sick pay
Includes:
duration; retrospective requests for sick pay
Eligible students may receive up to 13 weeks of paid sick leave at their normal stipend value from the first day of certified illness within any 12 month period subject to the following criteria:
a)
Students are not entitled to paid sick leave during the thesis pending period or any resubmission period;
b)
All cases of student sick leave will be considered individually on a case by case basis and any payment is subject to the approval of the relevant School, Faculty or Doctoral Training programme;
c)
In the case of short-term, self-limiting illnesses lasting less than four weeks (eg. colds, stomach upsets) stipend payments will continue to be paid.
d)
If the period of illness exceeds four weeks, the student will be required to formally interrupt their studies (see section 5 below). Any stipend payments already made to such students will be accounted for as sick pay from the date the student reported that their illness started, not the date any request for an interruption to study is made. Sick pay is unlikely to be considered if the absence due to illness is not reported at the time using the procedure in section 4c (Procedure for reporting sickness) below.
e)
Retrospective requests for sick pay will not normally be considered.
4. Procedure for reporting sickness
Includes:
notification of supervisor; durations; returning to study; calculating an absence period
a)
Any period of absence owing to illness, accident or injury should be reported by the student to the supervisor(s).
b)
For absence of 7 days or less, students are required to provide self-certification of their illness by completing the relevant form available from Student Service Centres, and must be submitted on the day of return to the University to the appropriate Student Service Centre.
c)
For absence greater than 7 days, students are required to have a medical certificate, available via their General Practitioner, covering any further periods of sickness in the same absence period. Students must complete the reverse side of the certificate before submission to the appropriate Student Service Centre.
d)
The student will not normally be permitted to return to their studies before the date specified by the doctor on the medical certificate.
e)
When calculating an absence period, note that weekends and public holidays are counted as days of absence.
5. Interruption of studies due to sickness during the period of registered study
In line with existing University policies (referenced above in section 1):
a)
If the period of illness exceeds 4 weeks, the student will be required to formally interrupt their studies.
b)
If the absence is for a period of more than 2 weeks or any period considered to be significant by the School and notified to students, the School may require the student to suspend their studies and return at a specified time in the future that will enable the student to resume the programme appropriately (see paragraph 2.1.4 of the Regulations Governing Attendance and Engagement).
c)
The University normally permits postgraduate research students to interrupt their degree for a maximum period of 12 months in total throughout the duration of the degree. To apply for an interruption, please consult the following:
Voluntary interruption of study
d)
Any application for an interruption of studies due to sickness is granted at the discretion of the appropriate School or Faculty and must be accompanied by a medical certificate or other acceptable evidence as defined in the relevant policies.
6. Returning to study after sick leave
Includes:
whom to inform; postponed return; additional support consultations
a)
Students must keep their supervisor and appropriate School, Faculty and/or Student Service Centre informed of any changes in their circumstances that may result in them returning to their studies earlier or later than originally stated.
b)
Students who are interrupting and want to return to their studies later than originally stated must apply for an extension to their interruption and provide a new medical certificate.
c)
The Student Services Welfare Officer and/or the Disability Support Office should be consulted if additional support needs are required for students returning from long-term sick leave. Students may in certain circumstances be referred to Occupational Health before being allowed to return to study.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
20 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-appointment-of-supervisors.aspx
Header: Appointment of supervisors
Intro: This page sets out the University's position on the appointment of supervisors, including role eligibility and requirements. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Appointment of supervisors - The University of NottinghamAppointment of supervisors
This page sets out the University's position on the appointment of supervisors, including role eligibility and requirements. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1. Policy
Every postgraduate researcher (PGR) registered for a higher degree (PhD, professional doctorate) will be guided during their period of registered study by a team of supervisors with suitable academic qualifications, appropriate expertise in the agreed area of the candidate’s research topic and an acceptable level of supervision experience.
2. Ensuring adequacy of supervision
Includes:
responsibility of Head of School; requirements for admission of PGRs
Heads of Schools are responsible for arranging for PGRs in their School to receive appropriate and continuous supervision during their period of registered study.
A PGR should only be admitted if the Head of School is satisfied that:
there are members of staff in the School suitably academically qualified for the task and who have the academic expertise and supervisory experience to supervise the PGR;
the members of staff are willing to supervise the PGR and the candidate is willing to accept them as their supervisors;
the member of staffs’ other teaching and research commitments permit them to accept the additional supervisory role;
the members of staff are aware of the role and responsibilities of supervisors;
the members of staff have received appropriate advice/training in supervision skills.
The Head of School should also be satisfied that the above conditions are met for all members of the supervisory team including those from outside the School.
3. Supervisory Team
Includes:
allocation; appointing joint or lead supervisors; responsibilities; availability
PGRs will be allocated a supervisory team containing at least 2 co-supervisors. This should normally occur prior to the PGR commencing their studies, but failing that and in exceptional circumstances supervisors must be allocated within 4 weeks of the commencement of their studies.
At least one member of the supervisory team will be currently engaged in research in the relevant discipline(s), so as to ensure that the direction and monitoring of the candidate’s progress is informed by up to date subject knowledge and research developments. The other member(s) need not necessarily have relevant discipline expertise, so long as the breadth of experience and knowledge across the supervisory team means that the candidates will always have access to someone with experience of supporting PGRs through to successful completion of their programme.
One of the supervisors in a co-supervisory arrangement must be designated as the lead supervisor and act as the main point of contact between the University and the PGR. The respective roles and responsibilities of the lead and other members of the supervisory team should be agreed and the candidate advised.
More information on the role of the supervisor can be found here:
Responsibilities of the supervisor
If one of the co-supervisors is absent from the University at any point during the period of registration, and this period of absence exceeds 6 months, an alternative supervisor should be appointed at the earliest opportunity. If it is the lead supervisor who is absent, it should be agreed which member of the supervisory team will cover their responsibilities during the absence and the candidate should be advised. In the event of short periods of supervisor absence, supervisions should continue as required with the remaining member(s) of the supervisory team.
4. Subject expertise
Supervisors must have an appropriate level of joint expertise between them in the academic area of the candidate’s research.
5. PGR agreement to supervision arrangements
Includes:
research opportunities; responsibilities of the Head of School
Research opportunities may be identified separately by supervisors, a candidate or a sponsor, or following discussions between a sponsor and the supervisors or a sponsor and the candidate. The key element linking the PGR and supervisors must be interest in and appropriate knowledge of the proposed area of research. There should be mutual agreement on the specific research topic, following discussions between the parties.
The Head of School should involve both the PGR and the members of staff in the preliminary discussions about supervision and should seek their agreement to initial supervision arrangements. A form is available for use by Schools to notify changes to the supervision arrangements for a PGR (see below), to be signed by the candidate, supervisors and the Head of School. Registry and Academic Affairs (or equivalent) should always be notified in writing of changes to supervision arrangements and this will act as confirmation that the PGR has agreed to the change in supervisory arrangements.
For UKRI funded PGRs, this information should also be shared with the Graduate School in order that they can notify relevant Research Councils and funders.  There may also be a requirement to inform a candidate’s sponsor, in the case of PGRs supported by other routes.
6. Eligibility to act as supervisor
Subject to the following sections, any member of staff currently undertaking research in the relevant discipline may be nominated to supervise a PGR, provided that they intend to remain in post for the normal duration of the candidate’s registered period of study and irrespective of whether they are on an open or fixed-term contract.
Senior Research Fellows (Level 5) who have experience of successful supervision may act as the lead supervisor.
Postdoctoral research staff may act as second supervisors in a co-supervision arrangement.
Honorary Professors, Honorary Lecturers, recently retired staff and Emeritus Professors may act as second supervisors in a co-supervision arrangement.
Postdoctoral staff and Level 4 Research Officers (or equivalent) who do not meet these criteria may act as an assistant supervisor within a supervisory team working with a lead and second supervisor.
At UNM all supervisors of postgraduate research degree programmes are required to undergo structured supervisor training.
7. Academic staff supervising for the first time
Includes:
lead supervisor; attending the course for postgraduate certificate in higher education; assigning a mentor; role of Head of School
Staff who are appointed as supervisors for the first time are not normally permitted initially to act as the lead supervisor, but should first be required to gain supervisory experience by acting in a co-supervision arrangement with an experienced member of staff. Exceptionally, Heads of Schools may apply to the University for permission to allow a new member of academic staff to act as the main supervisor, if a good case can be made that the member of staff's experience makes it appropriate for them to act in this capacity.
Staff appointed as supervisors or assistant supervisors for the first time, must undertake relevant training and development in supervisory practice (such as that offered by the Researcher Academy, Doctoral Training Centres and Partnerships). They must be in a co-supervision arrangement with a member of staff who has relevant supervisory experience and can and is willing to act as a mentor with respect to doctoral supervision.
For more information on supervisory training and development opportunities, please consult the following:
Researcher Academy Supervisory Sharepoint
8. Non-University staff
Includes:
responsibility of Head of School
Staff of outside institutions who are not members of the academic or research staff of the University of Nottingham may, in appropriate circumstances, be appointed to act as co-supervisors as part of a supervisory team e.g. industrial supervisors on an Industrial Cooperative Awards in Science & Technology (CASE) award, supervisors for PGRs registered under the regulations governing students registered in outside organisations (see below). In such cases the candidate must still have 2 University of Nottingham supervisors. This rule can be waived in cases where the PGR is a member of a Doctoral Training Programme (DTP) or Doctoral Training Centre (DTC) and the other supervisor is appointed through that DTP/DTC.
Heads of Schools should consider the proposed external supervisor's expertise in the candidate’s research topic and their research standing and ensure that they are made aware of and enabled to fulfil the University's expectations of supervisors and are offered opportunities to engage in development activities.
9. Staff without Doctorates
Includes:
academic staff at lecturer grade; permission
Academic staff at Lecturer grade who do not hold a doctorate themselves should not normally be permitted to act as the lead supervisor of a PGR.
However, a Head of School may apply to the University for permission to allow such a member of academic staff to act as the lead supervisor if a good case can be made that the individual's research and professional background makes it appropriate for them to act in this capacity.
10. Maximum number of PGRs
Includes:
responsibilities
The Head of School has responsibility for determining the number of PGRs an individual member of staff may supervise.
No maximum number is recommended but this should depend on the ability of the individual supervisor to deliver quality supervision as detailed in this Quality Manual under The Roles and Responsibilities of a Supervisor.
For more information, please consult the following:
Responsibilities of the supervisor
Additional information
Includes:
MPhil/Doctoral supervision arrangements form; research supervisors - SharePoint
MPhil/PhD supervision arrangements form
Research supervisors - SharePoint
Students studying in outside organisations
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
21 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-change-of-supervisor.aspx
Header: Change of supervisor
Intro: This page sets out the procedure for changing supervisor, including the temporary absence of a supervisor, problems with a supervisor, and withdrawals. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Change of supervisor - The University of NottinghamChange of supervisor
This page sets out the procedure for changing supervisor, including the temporary absence of a supervisor, problems with a supervisor, and withdrawals. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1. Policy
Includes:
allocation of supervisory team; requesting a change to supervision arrangements
From the academic session 2007/08, new students will be allocated a supervisory team containing at least two supervisors. Schools have the option to appoint joint or lead supervisors within the supervisory team. These regulations apply to any member of that supervisory team.
If a supervisor is unable to continue with the supervision, the postgraduate student is entitled to have a new supervisor who is suitable for the task assigned promptly to them on either a temporary or permanent basis to ensure that they are not subject to undue periods of unsupervised study.
Students and supervisors will also have the opportunity to request a change to the supervision arrangements in the event of insuperable difficulties arising from that relationship.
2. Responsibility of the Head of School
Includes:
continuous supervision throughout period of registered study; student funded on a studentship
The Head of School is responsible for ensuring that students are provided with continuous supervision from the beginning of and throughout their period of registered study. Therefore, if a supervisor is unable to continue supervising a student or if the supervisory relationship breaks down, the Head of School must take all reasonable steps to find a replacement supervisor with the appropriate expertise and supervisory experience who is acceptable to the student (and, if appropriate, to the student's sponsor).
Where a student is funded on a studentship awarded to a particular supervisor or on a specific research grant, it may not always be possible to change the supervisor. When there is a change to the arrangements for a student's supervision, the Head of School should inform Student Services or equivalent.
3. Short-term and temporary absence of a supervisor
In the case of the short term and temporary absence of a supervisor (for example, through illness) the Head of School must nominate a temporary supervisor who has the qualifications and qualities to meet the immediate needs of the student. "Short-term" supervisory arrangements should not normally exceed 3 months.
If a longer term but still temporary absence is anticipated the Head of School should discuss with the student (and if appropriate) the original supervisor, the relative benefits of operating extended temporary supervision arrangements up to but not exceeding 6 months, or allocating a new permanent supervisor.
4. Supervisor leaves
If a supervisor permanently ceases supervision (for example, through moving to a post at another institution), then the Head of School should discuss with the student the options which are available and which benefit the student.
One option will be to allocate a new permanent supervisor and the Head of School should make all reasonable efforts to identify another member of staff at Nottingham with the appropriate academic background and supervisory experience. However, it may not always be possible or in the student's best interests to allocate a new supervisor.
Other options which then might be considered are to ask the supervisor who has moved to another institution to continue to supervise at a distance and to appoint a second local supervisor at Nottingham, or to seek to facilitate the student's transfer to the supervisor's new institution.
5. Problems with supervisor
Research students who find themselves without supervision or who are unhappy with their supervision for any other reason should discuss the matter with their supervisor and/or joint/lead supervisor in the first instance, or (if this is inappropriate) with the School Postgraduate Student Adviser or the Head of School, or member of staff with delegated authority at UNM or UNNC and should ask that appropriate action be taken to resolve the difficulty.
These discussions must be undertaken in confidence and without fear of recrimination with the aim of resolving the difficulty amicably.
6. Postgraduate Student Adviser for the School
Includes:
mediating between student and supervisor; responsibilities
Heads of Schools should designate a full-time member of academic staff to act as an independent School Postgraduate Student Adviser (SPSA) to advise research students about general procedures and, in particular, to deal confidentially with any concern raised by a postgraduate student about their studies and supervision. If the supervisory relationship has broken down, the SPSA should be available to advise and support the student.
If appropriate, the SPSA should also offer to mediate between the student and the supervisor and, subject to confidentiality, should be prepared to advise the Head of School on a possible solution.
For more information about the responsibilities of the SPSA, please consult the following:
Responsibilities of the Postgraduate Student Advisor
7. Supervisor brings research students to Nottingham
Where it would be beneficial for a new member of staff to bring with them to Nottingham the research students who were under their supervision at the previous institution, Heads of Schools should be sympathetic to such requests and, where appropriate, seek to facilitate the transfer.
8. Withdrawal
On rare occasions, it may not be possible to make replacement supervision arrangements, and as a consequence the student may have to withdraw from their course.
Forms
Includes:
supervision arrangements form
Supervision arrangements form
Supervision arrangements form
Supervision arrangements form
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
21 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-applications-for-restriction-or-embargo.aspx
Header: Applications for a restriction or embargo to be placed on a thesis
Intro: This page contains information in relation to a restriction or embargo being placed on a thesis containing politically, commercially or industrially sensitive content. This information may be of interest to staff and students from across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Applications for a restriction or embargo to be placed on a thesis - The University of NottinghamApplications for a restriction or embargo to be placed on a thesis
This page contains information in relation to a restriction or embargo being placed on a thesis containing politically, commercially or industrially sensitive content. This information may be of interest to staff and students from across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Thesis restriction - Policy
Includes:
scope; external funding considerations; thesis restriction application form
If a thesis includes work which is politically, commercially or industrially sensitive, it is possible for a student to apply for access to the electronic copy held in Nottingham eTheses (for UK and Malaysia) or Research Information System (RIS) for China, to be restricted. In such case an application for restriction should be included when the student submits their thesis.
Some research projects are funded, partly or wholly, by outside agencies and a restriction may be stipulated in the contract which is drawn up with the University. If no contract exists, it is the responsibility of the student to put together a structured case to support their application for a restriction, in consultation with their supervisor.
The University's Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) can grant a restriction of access to a thesis for a period not exceeding 2 years in the first instance with the possibility of an extension of that period up to a maximum of 5 years.
Thesis restriction means that no part of the thesis, including the bibliographic details (author, title and abstract), is discoverable. Students should be aware that imposing a restriction means they will be unable to show their thesis is published within the repository.
Restrictions will normally only be granted on the basis of the actual or potential confidentiality of the contents of the thesis, e.g. to protect a patent application.
A restriction on a thesis does not affect the award of the degree in any way.
An application form is available here:
Application for restriction on PGR thesis
Application for restriction on PGR thesis
Application for restriction on PGR thesis
As part of the application the student's supervisor is responsible for providing a statement regarding the research being undertaken, including comments on the need for a restriction and the current research project number.
Thesis restriction - Procedure
Includes:
application; submission; decision; extension; retrospective application
The student concerned completes an 'Application for a Restriction to be placed on a Thesis' form (provided in the previous section) ensuring all boxes have been completed. Although the student may not know the relevant research project number, it is important that the student's supervisor provides this piece of information.
The form is then submitted by the student, with their thesis, to Registry and Academic Affairs in the UK or the Graduate School in UNNC or the Student Registry Office in UNM, for processing.
Once the Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) has made a decision about whether or not the restriction can be granted, the student will receive formal notification of the decision from the University. A copy of this notification is sent to the student’s supervisor and UoN Libraries to implement the restriction in Nottingham eTheses or RIS as required.
A final decision on an application can be expected within approximately 6 weeks of receipt of the form by Registry and Academic Affairs in the UK or the Graduate School in UNNC or the Student Registry Office in UNM.
It is possible to apply for an extension to the period of restriction once the initial period has lapsed and this is done by completing another copy of the original form. The onus is on the student to do this, as there is no process for notification of the expiry of the restriction.
In the case of a retrospective application, the electronic copy may already be discoverable. In this case the form may be copied by the student or School to UoN Libraries to request immediate restriction as a temporary measure until the Committee reaches a decision.
Thesis embargo
Requesting an embargo will defer publication of the thesis for a set period of time, usually a maximum of 1-2 years, before it becomes available to read. (For Creative Writing students only, an extended embargo of up to 7 years to enable publication of the work is permissible).
Embargos are not formal restrictions as they can be directly requested by the thesis author at the point of upload to the Nottingham eTheses or RIS repository, as relevant.
Before choosing to request an embargo, students should discuss the matter with their supervisor to ensure they take account of funder/sponsor expectations relating to open access for the thesis, as well as any other funding conditions.
It is important to note that with embargoed theses, the bibliographic details (author, title and abstract) remain discoverable and available to read. A student should consider whether the abstract contains commercial or sensitive information in consultation with their supervisor when they are assessing whether embargo or a formal restriction is required.
Where an embargo is applied to the thesis it cannot be released without author permission. Please consider pre-approving a request from supervisors to view the thesis during an embargo period.
More information on how to request embargo can be found here:
Submission information pack for PGRs
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
31 May 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-other-doc-degrees.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for other doctoral programmes
Intro: This section contains the supplementary regulations for a variety of different doctoral programmes. These pages are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for other doctoral programmes - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for other doctoral programmes
This section contains the supplementary regulations for a variety of different doctoral programmes. These pages are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Pages within this section
Supplementary regulations for the Integrated Programme leading to the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Supplementary regulations for the International PhD leading to the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Regulations for the Degree of European Doctorate (DocEuro)
Regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Medicine
Regulations for the Doctor of Agrifood
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Education (EdD) in School Improvement and Continuing Professional Development or Teacher Education or Literacy or Educational Leadership
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Education (EdD) (Lifelong Learning)
Supplementary regulations for the Professional Doctorate in Education (EdD)
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Educational Psychology (DAppEdPsy) from September 2020
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Educational Psychology (Professional Training) (DAppEdPsy) before September 2020
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Health Science (DHSci)
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVetMed) and Doctor of Veterinary Surgery (DVetSurg)
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Engineering (EngD)
Supplementary Regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology
before 2023
Supplementary Regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology from September 2023 (2021 & 2022 Intake)
Supplementary Regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology from September 2023 (2023 Intake)
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Forensic Psychology (DForenPsy)
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Workplace Health and Wellbeing (DocWHW)
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Public Policy (DPP)
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Public Management (DPM)
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
22 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-regs-degree-master-of-research.aspx
Header: Regulations for the degree of Master of research
Intro: This section contains the regulations for Master of research (MRes) programmes, including supplementary regulations. These pages are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Regulations for the degree of Master of research - The University of NottinghamRegulations for the degree of Master of research
This section contains the regulations for Master of research (MRes) programmes, including supplementary regulations. These pages are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Pages within this section
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) from September 2020
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Medicine from September 2019
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Geography from September 2019
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in the School of Biosciences from September 2019
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Veterinary Science from September 2020
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Pharmacy from September 2020
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Life Sciences from September 2020
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Chemistry from September 2020
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2020
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2019
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2018
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-regs-degree-maresearch-mscresearch.aspx
Header: Regulations for the degree of Master of Arts (MA) by research and Master of Science (MSc) by research
Intro: This section contains the degree of Master of Arts (MA) by Research and Master of Science (MSc) by Research programmes. These pages are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Regulations for the degree of Master of Arts (MA) by research and Master of Science (MSc) by research - The University of NottinghamRegulations for the degree of Master of Arts (MA) by research and Master of Science (MSc) by research
This section contains the degree of Master of Arts (MA) by Research and Master of Science (MSc) by Research programmes. These pages are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Pages within this section
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research) from September 2018
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research) before September 2018
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research), two years full-time / four years part-time
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-mvm-mvs.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Veterinary Medicine / Master of Veterinary Surgery (MVM / MVS)
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Veterinary Medicine / Master of Veterinary Surgery (MVM / MVS). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Veterinary Medicine / Master of Veterinary Surgery (MVM / MVS) - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Veterinary Medicine / Master of Veterinary Surgery (MVM / MVS)
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Veterinary Medicine / Master of Veterinary Surgery (MVM / MVS). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Admissions requirements
1.
A candidate for the Master of Veterinary Medicine or Master of Veterinary Surgery must:
(a)
be a graduate of this or any other approved university holding a Veterinary Bachelor’s degree (normally first or second class Honours or equivalent)
(b)
be a Member or Fellow of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons with a legal ability to practise veterinary medicine in the UK, or
(c)
hold other qualifications which, on the recommendation of the School, are deemed by the University to be equivalent to the qualifications referred to above.
Course of study
Includes:
course elements; general training; clinical practice; taught modules; clinical research thesis
The course comprises three elements:
1.
Generic training (20 credits)
2.
Clinical practice
3.
Up to 40 credits of taught modules at level 4, or exceptional level 3 (0-40 credits)
4.
Clinical research thesis (120 - 160 credits depending on the number of taught credits taken)
Assessment
A candidate for the degree of Master of Veterinary Medicine or Master of Veterinary Surgery shall be required after the period of directed study:
to demonstrate to the Examiners through attendance certificates that they have pursued an adequate generic training programme (20 credits);
to undertake assessments, as specified in the Catalogue of Modules, for all taught modules for which they have registered, achieving a minimum pass mark for each module of 50% (0-40 credits);
to submit a dissertation of a maximum 35,000 words (or equivalent) displaying originality and technical understanding commensurate with the credit weighting of the dissertation, achieving a minimum pass mark of 50% (120-160 credits);
to satisfy the Examiners regarding knowledge of the general field of scholarship to which the subject belongs;
to attend a viva voce examination held in the University on the subject of their dissertation and the general related field of scholarship as demonstrated by the clinical portfolio.
A candidate may choose, with the agreement of the supervisor, to take up to 40 credits of taught modules. These must be selected from level 4 level modules (or, exceptionally, level 3) and must be clearly cognate with the student's research topic. In this instance the candidate will be required to take any relevant assessments associated with these modules. At the discretion of the School, when students take taught credits as part of their MRes degree, the word limit for the dissertation can be reduced.
Reassessment
Includes:
where a thesis has been resubmitted; where a second viva voce examination has occurred
Candidates who fail to satisfy the Examiners in any taught modules may be re-examined on such terms as the University, on the recommendation of the School, may decide. Candidates may normally be re-examined on one occasion only.
Where a thesis has been resubmitted and/or a second viva voce examination has occurred, the Examiners may recommend to the University the following outcomes of examination:
award of degree for which the student is registered, or
minor corrections to the satisfaction of the Internal Examiner, or
award of Postgraduate Certificate or Diploma in Veterinary Medicine or Postgraduate Certificate or Diploma in Veterinary Surgery
Degree information
Includes:
outcomes of examination recommended by Examiner
The Examiners may recommend to the University the following outcomes of examination:
award of degree for which the student is registered, or
minor corrections to thesis to the satisfaction of the Internal Examiner, and/or reassessment in taught modules and/or attend a second viva voce examination
resubmit the same thesis and attend a second viva voce examination and/or reassessment in taught modules, or
resubmit the thesis in a revised form with/without attending a second viva voce examination, and/or reassessment in taught modules
Other regulations
Includes:
residency training; School code of practice
Students will be expected to undertake residency training for membership of the relevant European College or American Boards, or to undertake the relevant RCVS Diploma.
Students offered a place on the course will be required to accept the School Code of Practice by signing a Student Entry Agreement. A candidate that who to meet these standards will be required to appear before the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences Fitness-to-Practice Committee.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
25 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-regs-higher-docs.aspx
Header: Regulations for Higher Doctorates
Intro: This page contains the regulations for Higher Doctorates. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Regulations for Higher Doctorates - The University of NottinghamRegulations for Higher Doctorates
This page contains the regulations for Higher Doctorates. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Admission
1.
The Higher Doctorate degree of Doctor of Divinity (DD), Doctor of Laws (LLD), Doctor of Letters (DLitt), Doctor of Music (DMus) and Doctor of Science (DSc) may be conferred upon persons who shall be adjudged by Senate to have distinguished themselves by their substantial and original contributions to the advancement of learning.
Qualification for the degree
2.
The following shall be eligible to make application for the Higher Doctorate degree:
(a)
persons in the eighth or any subsequent year after the date of graduation in this University;
(b)
persons who were awarded a degree of the University of London after having attended, as full-time or part-time students in the University of Nottingham, the University College of Nottingham or the Midland Agricultural College, the complete post-Intermediate course of study appropriate to such degree, in the eighth or any subsequent year after the date of graduation;
(c)
graduates of not less than seven years' standing of any approved university, who at the time of application have been full-time members of the staff of this University for not less than four years.
Application
3.
A candidate must make an initial application to Registry and Academic Affairs (RAA) to submit for the degree.
4.
An initial application shall consist of the submission of:
(a)
a curriculum vitae;
(b)
a list of published works;
(c)
a submission title;
(d)
a statement of approximately 1,000 words;
(e)
a statement about joint authorship;
(f)
a statement describing any previous submission of the works for a degree of this or any other University;
(g)
the names of two referees who shall not be members of the University.
5.
The appropriate Head of School or, exceptionally, the appropriate Faculty Pro-Vice-Chancellor (FPVC) will decide on the basis of the information described in 4 (a)-(g) above whether there is a prima facie case for the award of the degree. The award of the degree shall be based wholly or to a substantial extent on original work of distinction carried out independently by the candidate.
6.
If the Head of School or FPVC decides that a prima facie case is so established, the candidate shall be invited to submit copies of the relevant published works for assessment (normally three copies are required).
7.
The Head of School or FPVC is required to submit to RAA nominations for two main and one reserve External Assessors for approval on behalf of the Quality and Standards Committee (QSC).
8.
If the Head of School or FPVC decides that a prima facie case has not been established or that the application is premature and should be rejected, this shall not prevent the candidate from applying on a further occasion at a later stage.
Assessors
9.
The works shall be submitted to two External Assessors. Exceptionally, the Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) shall invite the third Assessor to assess the submission.
10.
QSC, after considering the reports of the Assessors, may recommend to the University that the degree be awarded.
11.
If, after considering the reports of the Assessors, QSC decides not to recommend to the University that the degree be awarded, this shall not prevent the candidate from applying again to submit for the degree on one further occasion, which shall not be earlier than 2 years from the date of the first examination. The date of the first examination is the date on which QSC decided not to recommend that the degree be awarded.
Copies of work
12.
A copy of the work or works approved for the award of the degree shall be retained in the University Library.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
25 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-mas-amusm.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Musical Arts (AMusM)
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Musical Arts (AMusM), including information on admissions, examinations and transferring to a doctorate. However, please note that this programme is not currently running and its details will not be applicable to any staff or students.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Musical Arts (AMusM) - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Musical Arts (AMusM)
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Musical Arts (AMusM), including information on admissions, examinations and transferring to a doctorate. However, please note that this programme is not currently running and its details will not be applicable to any staff or students.Admission requirements
Includes:
exceptional circumstances
1.
A candidate for the degree of Master of Musical Arts must:
(a)
Be a graduate of this or any other approved university holding (i) a higher degree or (ii) a Bachelor's degree with first or second class Honours; or
(b)
Be a graduate holding a degree awarded by the Council for National Academic Awards with first or second class Honours; or
(c)
Hold such other qualifications as may be deemed by the University to be the equivalent of any qualification referred to in (a) above.
In exceptional circumstances, the following may with the approval of the University be deemed to qualify under the above Regulation:
(i)
A full-time candidate who is a graduate with third class Honours;
(ii)
A candidate who has no qualification appropriate to (a)-(c) above but whose general educational qualifications and ability in musical composition are deemed sufficient for admission to a course whose minimum period of directed study shall for full-time students be one year longer and for part time students be two years longer than that prescribed under paragraph 2(a) and (b) below.
Course of study
Includes:
requirements; period of study durations
2.
A candidate for the degree of Master of Musical Arts must have pursued in this University a course of directed study approved by the University, which is either:
(a)
Full-time for a period of not less than 12 months, normally 24 months: or,
(b)
Part-time for a period of not less than 24 months, normally 48 months.
Examination
Includes:
requirements after period of directed study; composition; outcomes
3.
A candidate for the degree of Master of Musical Arts shall be required after the conclusion of the period of directed study:
(a)
To submit a composition or compositions displaying originality of imagination, creative ability, technical understanding in usage of instrumental and/or vocal and/or electro-acoustic resources, structural control and, where appropriate, calligraphic skill and accuracy with regard to notation and presentation. Submitted compositions should be worthy of public performance, and
(b)
To be present at a viva voce examination on this submission and to satisfy the Examiners therein.
4.
The composition or compositions submitted for the degree of Master of Musical Arts should normally be the result of work done mainly while the student is registered as a candidate for that degree in this University. A certificate to this effect, countersigned by the candidate's Supervisor, shall be attached to the submission. If a substantial part of the submission was completed before registration for that degree, the certificate should declare this fact and identify the part of the work so completed.
5.
For the Master of Musical Arts degree the Examiners should submit independent reports on the composition portfolio to Student Services Development (Academic Processes) or equivalent or Head of School before the viva voce examination takes place. The reports should contain a full and frank assessment of the merits and weaknesses of the composition portfolio.
For more information about the role and appointment of examiners, please consult the following:
Assessment
6.
For the Master of Musical Arts degree the viva will test the candidate's acquaintance with the general compositional literature of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries, knowledge of the relation of the submitted composition portfolio to the wider field of which it is a part, and the respects in which the portfolio advances, modifies, or otherwise affects this wider field of compositional scholarship .
7.
The Examiners may recommend to the University the following outcomes of examination:
Award of degree of Master of Musical Arts, or
Minor corrections to the satisfaction of the internal examiner, or
Resubmit the same composition portfolio and attend a second viva voce examination, or
Resubmit the compositional portfolio in a revised form with/without attending a second viva voce examination, or
That no degree be awarded and that the candidate is not allowed to present him/herself again for examination for the degree of Master of Musical Arts.
8.
Where a Master of Musical Arts composition portfolio has been resubmitted and/or a second viva voce examination has occurred, the Examiners may recommend to the University the following outcomes of examination:
Award of degree of Master of Musical Arts, or
Minor corrections to the satisfaction of the internal examiner, or
No degree awarded and no further examination opportunity.
9.
The joint report form is forwarded by the Examiners to the Head of School and s/he shall forward the independent and joint report forms to Student Services Development (Academic Processes) or equivalent for approval by the University. Student Services Development (Academic Processes) or equivalent will inform the student of the University's decision.
10.
Successful candidates will be eligible to graduate once their thesis has been uploaded to the University's etheses service and approved by the Internal Examiner or, in cases where there are two external examiners, the lead External Examiner.
Transfers to doctorate
11.
A candidate shall not be permitted to count the period of time spent registered for the degree of Master of Musical Arts towards a separate and subsequent period of time spent registered for the degree of Doctor of Musical Arts. However, a candidate for a Master of Musical Arts degree may, after a period of not less than nine months' study for the Master's degree and before notification of intention to submit a composition or compositions has been given, with the approval of the supervisor and of the Head of the School concerned, and on the recommendation of the University, submit an application to the University for permission to be registered as a candidate for the degree of Doctor of Musical Arts instead of that of Master of Musical Arts. If permission is thus granted then the period of time already spent registered for the Master of Musical Arts degree will be counted as part of the registration time-period required for the Doctor of Musical Arts degree. A candidate who does not hold a degree or a qualification deemed to be the equivalent of a degree will be permitted to transfer under this regulation only in exceptional circumstances.
Leave of absence
12.
A candidate may submit an application to the University for leave of absence to study elsewhere in order to use equipment or take advantage of facilities not available to them within the University for a period of not more than one academic year in lieu of a course of study in the University, provided that the period so spent elsewhere shall not amount to more than half of the candidate's total period of study. During periods of absence supervision requirements still apply.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-doc-amusd.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Musical Arts (AMusD)
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Musical Arts (AMusD), including information on admissions, examinations and transferring to a doctorate. However, please note that this programme is not currently running and its details will not be applicable to any staff or students.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Musical Arts (AMusD) - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Musical Arts (AMusD)
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Musical Arts (AMusD), including information on admissions, examinations and transferring to a doctorate. However, please note that this programme is not currently running and its details will not be applicable to any staff or students.Admission requirements
1.
A candidate for the degree of Doctor of Musical Arts must:
(a)
Be a graduate of this or any other approved university holding
(i)
a higher degree or
(ii)
a Bachelor's degree with first or second class Honours; or
(b)
Be a graduate holding a degree awarded by the Council for National Academic Awards with first or second class Honours; or
(c)
Hold such other qualifications as may be deemed by the University to be the equivalent of any qualification referred to in (a) above.
Course of study
Includes:
requirements; full time period of study; part time period of study
2.
A candidate for the degree of Doctor of Musical Arts must have pursued in this University a course of directed study approved by the University, which is either
(a)
Full-time for a period not less than 24 months, normally 36, except:
(i)
That in the case of graduates of this University, by permission of Senate, a period not exceeding one year of study under similar conditions elsewhere may be regarded as equivalent to a similar period of study in this University.
(ii)
That candidates (other than members of the University staff) may undertake paid duties in the University if the time given thereto during term does not exceed six hours per week. Paid work outside the University may be undertaken only by permission of the Head of the School concerned; or
(b)
Part-time for a period of not less than 48 months, normally 72, except that the period of study shall be not less than three years if the candidate either
(i)
Holds an appointment within the University but is not eligible as a staff candidate under Regulation 5 of the Phd and MPhil Regulations; or
(ii)
Holds a lecturing appointment within an Affiliated College of the University of Nottingham.
For more information about PhD and MPhil regulations, please consult the following:
Regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy and Master of Philosophy
Examination
Includes:
requirements after conclusion of directed study; composition; outcomes
3.
A candidate for the degree of Doctor of Musical Arts shall be required after the conclusion of the period of directed study:
(a)
To submit a composition or compositions displaying originality of imagination, a high level of creative ability, technical mastery in usage of instrumental and/or vocal and/or electro-acoustic resources, firm structural control and coherence and, where appropriate, impeccable calligraphic skill and accuracy with regard to notation and presentation. Compositions should be worthy of public performance by professional musicians within a professional environment, and
(b)
To be present at a viva voce examination on this submission and to satisfy the Examiners therein.
4.
The composition or compositions submitted for the degree of Doctor of Musical Arts should normally be the result of work done mainly while the student is registered as a candidate for that degree in this University. A certificate to this effect, countersigned by the candidate's Supervisor, shall be attached to the submission. If a substantial part of the submission was completed before registration for that degree, the certificate should declare this fact and identify the part of the work so completed.
5.
For the Doctor of Musical Arts degree the Examiners should submit independent reports on the composition portfolio to Student Services Development (Academic Processes) or equivalent or Head of School before the viva voce examination takes place. The reports should contain a full and frank assessment of the merits and weaknesses of the composition portfolio.
For more information about the role and appointment of examiners, please consult the following:
Assessment
6.
For the Doctor of Musical Arts degree the viva will test the candidate's acquaintance with the general compositional literature of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries, knowledge of the relation of the submitted composition portfolio to the wider field of which it is a part, and the respects in which the portfolio advances, modifies, or otherwise affects this wider field of compositional scholarship .
7.
The Examiners may recommend to the University the following outcomes of examination:
Award of degree of Doctor of Musical Arts, or
Minor corrections to the satisfaction of the internal examiner, or
Resubmit the same composition portfolio and attend a second viva voce examination, or
Resubmit the compositional portfolio in a revised form with/without attending a second viva voce examination, or
That no degree be awarded and that the candidate is not allowed to present him/herself again for examination for the degree of Doctor of Musical Arts.
8.
Where a Doctor of Musical Arts composition portfolio has been resubmitted and/or a second viva voce examination has occurred, the Examiners may recommend to the University the following outcomes of examination:
Award of degree of Doctor of Musical Arts, or
Minor corrections to the satisfaction of the internal examiner, or
No degree awarded and no further examination opportunity.
9.
The joint report form is forwarded by the Examiners to the Head of School and s/he shall forward the independent and joint report forms to Student Services Development (Academic Processes) or equivalent for approval by the University. The Student Services Development (Academic Processes) or equivalent will inform the student of the University's decision.
10.
Successful candidates will be eligible to graduate once their thesis has been uploaded to the University’s eTheses service and approved by the Internal Examiner or, in cases where there are two external examiners, the lead External Examiner. For more information, please consult the following:
Nottingham eTheses
Leave of absence
11.
A candidate may submit an application to the University for leave of absence to study elsewhere in order to use equipment or take advantage of facilities not available to them within the University for a period of not more than one academic year in lieu of a course of study in the University, provided that the period so spent elsewhere shall not amount to more than half of the candidate's total period of study. During periods of absence supervision requirements still apply.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-darch.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Architecture (DArch)
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Architecture (Darch), including admissions, assessment, progression and awards information. However, please note that this programme is not currently running and its details will not be applicable to any staff or students.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Architecture (DArch) - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Architecture (DArch)
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Architecture (Darch), including admissions, assessment, progression and awards information. However, please note that this programme is not currently running and its details will not be applicable to any staff or students.Overview
1.
These regulations shall be subject to, and shall be read in the light of, the University Regulations for Higher Degrees, Diplomas and Certificates.
Admission
2.
Candidates for this course will normally be required to have obtained a good honours first degree in Architecture. Consideration is also given to candidates with other relevant professional qualifications and experience. Evidence of motivation will be sought and a portfolio of project work will be required. Candidates shall normally be required to satisfy the University's admission requirements for proficiency in English language.
Course of study
Includes:
requirements; taught modules; subject matter and availability of modules
3.
Candidates for the DArch degree are required to follow a prescribed course of study of 24 months full-time, or not less than 24 and not more than 48 months part-time in conjunction with approved professional training in accordance with RIBA rules.
The taught modules of the course will total 240 credits, 80 of which will be prescribed within the selected field of study and 40 will be chosen from other approved modules; prescribed practice-linked modules will total 120 credits, 60 credits of which will comprise an evaluation of practical experience. A research project will lead to a thesis completed subsequent to the period of prescribed study.
The taught modules will take place in Autumn and Spring Semesters. The practice-linked modules will be the subject of periodic three and four day courses throughout the year and will normally be examined during October/November. The thesis will be completed during the subsequent 12 months for submission no later than the end of October.
The subject matter and availability of modules comprising these courses, together with any prerequisites, corequisites and other requirements applicable to them, shall be as specified in the Catalogue of Modules.
Assessment
4.
The forms of assessment applicable to modules comprising these courses shall be as indicated in the Catalogue of Modules. Fail marks in any of the modules of the courses may not be compensated under any circumstances.
Progression
Includes:
candidates who do not achieve a pass mark in any modules; progressing from taught and practice-linked modules to thesis
5.
Candidates who do not achieve a pass mark in any of their modules may be required to submit such supplementary work, in accordance with such conditions, as the Head of School may require, or may be required to retake their failed modules at dates to be prescribed.
In order to progress from the taught and practice-linked modules to the thesis, candidates shall normally be expected to have passed in all of their modules and have had approved the topic of their research.
Awards
Includes:
pass mark for modules and thesis
6.
Candidates who have achieved a pass mark in all their modules and have satisfactorily completed the thesis will be awarded the degree of Doctor of Architecture.
The pass mark for all modules and thesis shall be 50%. Candidates who do not achieve a pass mark for their thesis following a second submission, but have passed all their other modules, will be eligible only for the degree of Master of Architecture.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-dass.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Social Sciences (DASS)
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Social Sciences (DASS), including admissions, thesis and awards information. However, please note that this programme is not currently running and its details will not be applicable to any staff or students.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Social Sciences (DASS) - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Social Sciences (DASS)
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Social Sciences (DASS), including admissions, thesis and awards information. However, please note that this programme is not currently running and its details will not be applicable to any staff or students.Admissions requirements
1.
A candidate for the degree of Doctor of Applied Social Science must:
(a)
Be a graduate of this or any other approved university holding a Bachelor's degree (normally first or second class Honours or equivalent) and normally holding a relevant Master's degree from this or any other approved university; or
(b)
Hold such other qualifications or research experience as may, on the recommendation of the University, be deemed by Senate to be equivalent to the qualifications referred to in (a). Candidates will normally be expected to have a minimum of two years' relevant practical experience.
Course of study
2.
A candidate for the degree of DASS must have pursued in this University a full or part-time course of study comprising a taught component and a major research project. Completion of the DASS programme requires a minimum of three years' full-time supervised study or four years' part-time supervised study.
Taught component
Includes:
candidates who fail to satisfy examiners
3.
The taught component requires the completion of 180 credits, including a research dissertation (60 credits) normally completed during the first year of the course (or two years if part-time). The taught component requires satisfactory completion of the following courses as part of a training programme in theory and research methods of applied social science:
Policy analysis and evaluation 30 credits
Advanced quantitative design and analysis 30 credits
Research management 20 credits
Advanced qualitative design and analysis 20 credits
Subject specific module 20 credits
Dissertation 60 credits.
The dissertation on an approved topic will comprise a 10,000 word research report, executive summary and 3,000-5,000 word article (derived from the dissertation) for prospective publication in a practitioner or academic journal. It will be completed within one year of the start of the course in the case of full time study and within two years in the case of part time study.
Candidates who fail to satisfy the Examiners in any of the above courses or the dissertation may be re-examined on such terms as the Senate, on the recommendation of the University, may decide. Candidates may normally be re-examined on one occasion only.
Thesis
Includes:
submission; original application of knowledge in area of applied social science
4.
Candidates are required to submit a thesis on an approved topic. The thesis will comprise a 50,000 word report, an executive summary, a 5-6,000 word literature review relating to the thesis topic a 7-8,000 word article (derived from the thesis) for prospective publication in an academic journal.
The thesis should offer an original application of knowledge in the area of applied social science and should demonstrate the candidate's ability to integrate rigorous academic analysis with practical relevance and application. The thesis should be the result of the work done mainly while the candidate is registered for the degree. The candidate shall submit a certificate to this effect, countersigned by the candidate's supervisor, when presenting the thesis. The submission should also be accompanied by evidence that the taught programme has been satisfactorily completed.
Award of DASS
5.
The degree of DASS will be conferred on candidates who have completed the taught programme and submitted a thesis in a form and of a standard outlined above. Candidates are required to present themselves for viva voce examination to be conducted by one internal (academic) Examiner who is not one of the candidate's supervisors, one external (academic) Examiner and a normally a third Examiner who would normally be a senior executive for the research sponsor (but not the external research supervisor).
Failure
6.
A candidate for the degree of DASS whose thesis fails to satisfy the Examiners may, by permission of Senate on the recommendation of the Examiners and the University, be allowed to:
(a)
Make minor corrections to the thesis to the satisfaction of the internal (academic) Examiner; or
(b)
To represent the same thesis and attend a second viva voce examination; or
(c)
To represent the thesis in a revised form and take the whole examination; or
(d)
To represent the thesis without taking the whole examination.
A candidate proceeding under this regulation shall normally be required to pursue a further course of directed study for a specified period that will not normally exceed one calendar year.
Candidates who fail to satisfy the Examiners in one or more of the taught components or the dissertation may be re-examined. Candidates may normally by re-examined on one occasion only. Candidates who fail to satisfy the Examiners on one or more of the taught components or the dissertation will not be allowed to progress to thesis stage of the award.
Award of Master's degree
7.
Candidates who have satisfied the examiners in assessment for the taught modules, including the dissertation and who do not wish to be examined or re-examined in their thesis may be awarded an MA in Advanced Social Research.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-educational-dapppsyed.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Psychology (Educational) (DAppPsyEd)
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Psychology (Educational) (DAppPsyEd). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Psychology (Educational) (DAppPsyEd) - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Psychology (Educational) (DAppPsyEd)
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Psychology (Educational) (DAppPsyEd). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
The regulations for the DAppPsy (Ed) are those which govern the PhD except where the following modify or supplement them.
Admission requirements
1.
A candidate for the Doctor of Applied Psychology (Educational) must
(a)
Be a graduate of this or any other approved university holding a Masters degree recognised by the Department for Children, Schools and Families as a professional qualification for work as an educational psychologist; or
(b)
Hold such other qualification as may, on the recommendation of the University be deemed by Senate to be equivalent to the qualifications referred to in (a).
2.
Candidates will normally be expected to have a minimum of two years' experience as a local education authority educational psychologist.
Course of study
3.
A candidate for the degree of DAppPsy (Ed) must have pursued in this University a part-time course of study comprising a taught component and a major research project. Completion of the DAppPsy (Ed) programme requires a minimum four years' part-time supervised study.
Taught component
4.
The taught component requires the completion of 120 credits, completed during the first two years of the course. The taught component requires satisfactory completion of the modules as listed in the School's programme handbook.
5.
The University's Regulations for Taught Master's Degrees, Postgraduate Diploma and Postgraduate Certificate courses shall apply with regard to satisfactory progression on the taught element of the degree. For more information, please consult the following:
Postgraduate Taught study regulations
Submission of thesis
6.
Candidates are required to submit a thesis of at least 35,000 words, and no more than 40,000 words, on an approved topic. The thesis should offer an original application of knowledge in the area of educational psychology and should demonstrate the candidate's ability to integrate rigorous academic analysis with practical relevance and application. The thesis should be the result of work completed mainly while the candidate is registered for the degree, such that at least 75% of the work submitted has been carried out during this period. A certificate to this effect, countersigned by the candidate's supervisor, shall be submitted by the candidate when presenting the thesis. The submission should also be accompanied by evidence that the taught programme has been satisfactorily completed .
Outcomes of examination
Includes:
candidates who do not undertake or fail research thesis but complete part
7.
The degree of DAppPsy (Ed) will be conferred on candidates who have completed the taught programme, submitted a thesis in a form and of a standard outlined above and successfully completed the final module concerning research dissemination.
8.
Candidates who either do not undertake or fail the research thesis but successfully complete part or the whole of the taught programme may be considered for the following awards: Postgraduate Certificate in Applied Psychology (Educational) (60 credits), or Postgraduate Diploma in Applied Psychology (Educational) (120 credits).
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/admissions/academic-entry-requirements.aspx
Header: Academic entry requirements
Intro: This page contains information on the basic admissions requirements for undergraduate, postgraduate taught and postgraduate research degrees. Its content is primarily aimed at prospective students but may also be of interest to staff based at the UK campus.
Content:
Academic entry requirements - The University of NottinghamAcademic entry requirements
This page contains information on the basic admissions requirements for undergraduate, postgraduate taught and postgraduate research degrees. Its content is primarily aimed at prospective students but may also be of interest to staff based at the UK campus.Overview and responsibilities
Includes:
location of criteria; School responsibilities
The setting of entry criteria is the responsibility of the school to which the course is attached, within the overall policy requirements agreed by the University. Minimum entry criteria are published online in the Programme Specification document for each course, following approval from Quality and Standards Committee (QSC).
The Admissions Office maintains a database of minimum entry requirements for all taught courses at undergraduate and postgraduate level, which includes both academic and non-academic criteria. The database is updated following consultation with school admissions staff prior to the start of each academic session. This information is then used in generic University publications, such as programme specification documents, online and hard copy University prospectuses, and UCAS publications.
School responsibilities
It is the school’s responsibility to ensure that published entry requirements (both academic and non-academic) are fair, transparent and accurate wherever they are published
Schools must ensure that these criteria are applied consistently and fairly when making decisions
Schools may not introduce additional requirements or tests part-way through an applications cycle
Admissions requirements
Includes:
criteria; undergraduate; postgraduate taught; Recognition of Other Learning; research degrees
Undergraduate
The University minimum for entry is normally grades BBC at A-level or equivalent (BCC for foundation programmes) although most courses require higher grades for entry. Schools can insist on a particular level of performance in a subject at GCSE, A Level or other examinations, including English language qualifications. Where particular subjects will not be considered, these should be specified (for example, General Studies).
When assessing an application for undergraduate study, admissions selectors will normally consider the following information on the UCAS form:
Academic ability and potential as shown by GCSE and AS level results and predicted or actual A level grades or equivalent
Motivation to study a particular discipline
Related work or voluntary experience showing commitment to a chosen career (particularly important for courses with a vocational element)
Extra-curricular activities, achievements and interests
Postgraduate taught
When assessing an application for taught postgraduate study, admissions selectors should ensure that applicants hold a good first degree with at least second class honours, or an equivalent qualification. Evidence of relevant personal, professional and educational experience may also be taken into account.
Where a school wishes to admit an applicant on the basis of significant relevant work experience in lieu of an appropriate academic qualification, it will need to make a case for exceptional entry to be considered on behalf of Quality and Standards Committee (QSC).
More information on admissions requirements can be found here:
Recognition of Other Learning
Research degrees
In considering applications for admission to a research degree, a school will consider if the applicant would be able to achieve the standards required for the award of that degree.
Normally, applicants will be required to possess a first degree with at least Class 2 Division I Honours, or an equivalent qualification for PhD or other doctoral degree, or at least Second Class Honours for entry onto an MPhil or other research master's degree (for example, MRes, or MA or MSc by Research) programme.
Additional links
Make an enquiry
Admissions Office
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK
Admission queries UNUK
UNNC
Admission queries UNNC
UNM
Admissions queries UNM
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
12 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-regs-mres-sept20.aspx
Header: Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) from September 2020
Intro: This page contains the regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) from September 2020, including admissions, examination and award of degree information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) from September 2020 - The University of NottinghamRegulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) from September 2020
This page contains the regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) from September 2020, including admissions, examination and award of degree information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview and supplementary regulations
For students commencing their programmes before this date, the MA/MSc by Research Regulations and Master of Research (pre-September 2020) will apply except for Regulation 6 which applies to all students from September 2020. For more information, please consult the following:
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) before September 2020
Students from countries that are not familiar with the MRes qualification may, alternatively, be awarded a MA or MSc by Research in order not to disadvantage those students. The regulations for these awards will, though, be exactly the same as for the MRes. This will also be permitted, with QSC approval, where required by professional, regulatory or accrediting bodies.
Apprenticeship Programmes
An individual undertaking an apprenticeship programme at the University of Nottingham (UK campus) will be considered as a part time student. All regulations in the Quality Manual that make reference to ‘students’, also apply to apprentices, unless otherwise stated.
Admissions requirement
1.
Requirements for admission to a research degree are set out in the Academic entry requirements page, which can be found here:
Academic entry requirements
Programme of study
2.
Students will be admitted to a one year, full-time (two years, part-time) programme of study unless it is an apprenticeship, where it will be stated in the programme specification.
Taught and thesis elements
3.
Students are required to study modules worth 180 credits, of which between 20 and 60 credits (or equivalent) should normally be obtained from taught modules at Level 4 or from other units offering generic training within the University (such as the Researcher Academy) or from within any other relevant courses run within Schools. The remaining credits will then be obtained from the thesis  at Level 4. Any taught modules and research training taken must be clearly relevant with the student’s research topic.
4.
Students will receive regular supervision while undertaking the thesis component, specific to their learning needs and thesis topic. This will be as set out in the thesis description and in line with the requirements for supervision contained in the regulations for research degrees.
For more information regarding minimum number of supervisions, please consult the following:
Responsibilities of the supervisor
Transfer to PhD
5.
A candidate shall not be permitted to count the same period of research for both the degree of Master of Research (MRes) and the degree of PhD. However a candidate for the MRes degree may, after a period of not less than nine months study for the MRes and prior to the submission of the thesis, with the approval of the supervisor and Head of School (or equivalent), submit a transfer form to the University for permission to be registered as a candidate for the degree of PhD instead of a Master of Research. The period of registration for the degree of PhD should normally be three years (and not less than two years) full-time from the initial date of registration for the MRes.
Assessment
Includes:
module specifications; submitting thesis before end of registered study; viva voce examinations
6.
In regard to the thesis, the maximum word length of the thesis is dependent on the credit size of the thesis and the following apply:
120 credits – 25,000
140 credits – 30,000
160 credits – 35,000
The maximum word limit is inclusive of appendices, footnotes, tables but not the bibliography. The Thesis should embody the result of the candidate’s advanced study and research.
7.
Students are required to submit their thesis prior to the end of the period of registered study. An electronic version saved as a searchable PDF, should be submitted to the relevant Registry and Academic Affairs PGR team or equivalent (in a form prescribed by the University), who will forward the thesis to the Examiners. The thesis should not, whether in the same or a different form, have been submitted to this or any other University for the award of any degree.
8.
The thesis must be the result of the student’s own work. The requirement does not preclude a student obtaining limited assistance with proof-reading and with the routine collection and/or processing of data under guidelines and instructions clearly devised by the student. When such help is obtained it should be with the prior approval of the supervisor who must be satisfied that the spirit of the 'own work' requirement is not breached.
9.
The thesis is examined by both an External Examiner and an Internal Examiner appointed under the regulations governing the assessment of research degrees, who should provide independent reports on the thesis, indicating whether the thesis module has been passed; and also whether a viva voce examination is necessary. Where a viva voce examination is required by the examiners, this should be conducted in line with the relevant regulations for MPhil degrees.
For more information about the Viva voce examinations, please consult the following:
Viva voce examinations
Outcomes of examination
Includes:
award of degree; where a student obtains a fail mark or failed thesis or training credits; nottingham etheses service
10.
The degree is awarded where all taught modules and training credits and the thesis module have been passed. The pass mark for all taught modules is 50%, but marks of 40%-49% can normally be compensated in up to 20 credits if the overall average for the taught modules taken is 50% or over. Training credits will be assessed on a pass/fail basis.
11.
Where a student obtains a fail mark in a taught module that is not compensated, or fails the thesis module or training credits, the student has one further opportunity to pass those modules. All reassessments must be completed within one year of the end of the student's period of registered study.
12.
The qualification awarded to the student will include the subject of study undertaken as notified to the student at the time of admission.
13.
Successful candidates will be eligible to graduate once their thesis has been uploaded to the University’s eTheses service and approved by the Internal Examiner or, in cases where there are two external examiners, the lead External Examiner. For more information, please consult the following:
Nottingham eTheses
UNNC RIS
14.
For apprenticeship programmes:
On integrated apprenticeship programmes the End-Point Assessment serves as a final credit bearing module for the degree. It also constitutes the summative assessment for the apprenticeship award. Each specific End-Point Assessment plan outlines the final classification criteria for the apprenticeship award.
On non-integrated apprenticeship programmes, the End-Point Assessment is undertaken after completion of the degree, and is taken as a standalone assessment external to the University.
A course may only have progression requirements more stringent than those stated in regulation 10 above if there is a demonstrable requirement from a professional accrediting external body or is required to meet Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) requirements for attainment on an apprenticeship programme.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/admissions/admissions-procedures-disability-medical.aspx
Header: Admissions procedures for applicants with a disability or long-term medical condition
Intro: This page provides information on admission procedures for applicants with a disability or long-term medical condition. Its content is primarily aimed at prospective students based within the UK but may also be of interest to staff at all of the University's campuses.
Content:
Admissions procedures for applicants with a disability or long-term medical condition - The University of NottinghamAdmissions procedures for applicants with a disability or long-term medical condition
This page provides information on admission procedures for applicants with a disability or long-term medical condition. Its content is primarily aimed at prospective students based within the UK but may also be of interest to staff at all of the University's campuses.Overview
Includes:
requirements; Equality Act 2010
As a public sector body the University must show due regard (as outlined within the Equality Act 2010) to the need to:
Eliminate unlawful discrimination, harassment and victimisation and other conduct prohibited by the Act
Advance equality of opportunity between people who share a protected characteristic and those who do not
Foster good relations between people who share a protected characteristic and those who do not
All Schools are required to include consideration of the duty to promote disability equality in the operation of their admissions processes and application of entry criteria, and to identify and assess the applicant's requirements in an effective and timely way, taking into account the applicant's views.
Equality Act 2010
For more information about the Equality Act 2010, please consult the following:
Equality Act 2010
Contacts for the international campuses
Includes:
University of Nottingham Malaysia; University of Nottingham Ningbo China
Please be aware that our admissions practices differ for the international campuses. For more information about each campus' requirements, please contact the following:
International campus contact details
Campus
Email
University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM)
wellbeingandlearning@nottingham.edu.my
University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC)
disability-support@nottingham.edu.cn
Policy for applications to the UK campuses
Includes:
UCAS code descriptors; next steps; exceptional reasons for the rejection of an application
As part of this commitment, the University believes that admissions processes should be as equitable as possible for all students. All applications from candidates who have disclosed a disability will be considered in the same way as any other application and a decision will be made that is based upon the candidate’s academic merit and potential.
The legislation with which the University's policy complies is now the Equality Act 2010 (replacing the previous provisions that were outlined in the Disability Discrimination Act 1995 and the Special Educational Needs and Disability Act 2001) which applies equally to disabled students and disabled applicants.
Applicants are encouraged to disclose a disability when they apply by completing the relevant section of their application form (Personal Details of the UCAS form, section 10 of the Postgraduate Application paper form, section 4 of the online Postgraduate application form).
UCAS code descriptors
The codes on the UCAS form for Disability/Special needs (including dyslexia) and medical condition box are as follows:
Table of UCAS Disability/Special needs and medical condition codes and descriptors
Code
Descriptor
A
No disability
B
You have a social/communication impairment such as Asperger's syndrome/other autistic spectrum disorder
C
You are blind or have a serious visual impairment uncorrected by glasses
D
You are deaf or have a serious hearing impairment
E
You have a long standing illness or health condition such as cancer, HIV, diabetes, chronic heart disease, or epilepsy
F
You have a mental health condition, such as depression, schizophrenia or anxiety disorder
G
You have a specific learning difficulty such as dyslexia, dyspraxia or AD(H)D
H
You have physical impairment or mobility issues, such as difficulty using your arms or using a wheelchair or crutches
I
You have a disability, impairment or medical condition that is not listed above
J
You have two more more impairments and/or disabling medical conditions
A code other than A means the applicant has indicated some form of disability (for the purposes of this function, dyslexia is included as a disability) and reasonable adjustments may be required.
Next steps
Where an application made indicates a disability code other than A or G this application is referred by the Admissions Office to the Disability Support Team. The applicant’s requirements are considered and appropriate action is taken to ensure the applicant understands the support available. In some cases, a meeting will be organised with the applicant and the School to explore such requirements and how these may be met.
Following this meeting, support services will be put in place and reasonable adjustments made at the University to address barriers which disabled students may encounter in the learning, teaching and assessment environment and which may affect performance.
The Admissions Office will send a letter to all other applicants who have disclosed a disability and who Disability Support do not consider it necessary to meet. The letter is sent to those who have accepted conditional, unconditional and insurance offers, outlining services available at the University. A form is enclosed with the letter inviting the applicant to contact Academic or Disability Support with any requirements they may have.
Exceptional reasons for the rejection of an application
Whilst the provisions of the Equality Act 2010 normally make it illegal to reject an applicant on the grounds of disability, there are three instances in which a university can reject a disabled applicant if they have the entry criteria necessary and these are:
Overriding health and safety concerns;
Barriers resulting from professional requirements;
Necessary reasonable adjustments cannot be made.
Open day or interview arrangements
Includes:
Disability Liaison Officer; contacts and correspondence
Each School has a Disability Liaison Officer (DLO) to provide a point of reference, advice and guidance for members of staff and students in the School about disability issues and support. Admissions staff should check with applicants whether they have any individual requirements prior to the interview or Open Day, and may wish to seek guidance from the School’s DLO beforehand.
In certain situations, a Department or School will carry out its own admissions selection process (for example, research degrees).
For more information about the DLO role, please consult the following:
Student with disabilities
Contacts and correspondence
To ensure that student performance at assessment is optimised and to comply with our legal obligations, any correspondence inviting potential students to an interview or assessment should always include the following text: "Please inform me as soon as possible if you have any individual requirements which need to be made for you because of a disability in order to attend the interview, for example a ground floor interview room".
Academic or Disability Support may also be contacted before the visit if the candidate has any academic-related study requirements or issues relating to accommodation or transport prior to the student’s visit.
Upon offer of a place to study at the University, the applicant should be referred to the Disability Support Team.
For more information about the University's Disability Support Services, please consult the following:
Disability Support Services
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK
Admission queries UNUK
UNNC
Admission queries UNNC
UNM
Admissions queries UNM
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
21 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/admissions/admissions-procedures-criminal.aspx
Header: Admissions procedures for applicants with criminal convictions
Intro: This page sets out the admissions procedures for applicants with criminal convictions. Its content is primarily aimed at prospective students based within the UK but may also be of interest to staff and current students at all of the University's campuses.
Content:
Admissions procedures for applicants with criminal convictions - The University of NottinghamAdmissions procedures for applicants with criminal convictions
This page sets out the admissions procedures for applicants with criminal convictions. Its content is primarily aimed at prospective students based within the UK but may also be of interest to staff and current students at all of the University's campuses.Overview
Includes:
UCAS and University requirements; DBS clearance; accommodation
The UCAS application and the University direct application requires applicants applying to regulated courses to declare any relevant criminal convictions.
Regulated courses are those which require a DBS clearance to enable a student to complete the course.
The University does not require applicants to other courses to declare criminal convictions. However, it is required if applicants wish to stay in University owned or managed accommodation.
Declaration of criminal convictions for 'Regulated Courses'
Includes:
point of consideration; process of admission; advanced checks and permission
Any declaration of a criminal conviction will not form part of the initial academic assessment of the application. Should the Admissions tutor wish to make an offer of a place to an applicant who has declared a relevant criminal conviction for a regulated course, this will need to be considered prior to issuing the offer.
In the event of an academic offer being agreed, the application will then be passed to the Head of Admissions (UCAS/UTT) or Head of Admissions (Direct). The Head of Admissions will contact the applicant to request further details of the offence, including, if applicable, references from probation officers.
This information will then be sent to the course director (for the course applied for) and the Campus Life Director to consider whether the applicant is able to comply with regulatory requirements and to decide the applicants suitability to study on the regulated programme or to practice in the regulated profession. This may involve carrying out an enhanced DBS check prior to offer and consulting partner organisations (such as the NHS) - however, this will only be done with the applicant's permission.
Fair chance for students with convictions
We believe everyone with the potential and ambition to go to university should have the opportunity to do so, regardless of background. People with criminal convictions face obstacles and barriers to accessing university, yet higher education has the power to transform their lives by helping them move forward and make a positive contribution to society.
The University of Nottingham pledges to give applicants with a criminal record a fair chance.
For more information, please consult the following:
Unlock: a fair chance for students with convictions
Applicants with criminal convictions applying to stay in University owned or managed accommodation
Includes:
requirements;
spent convictions; accommodation decisions (when unspent conviction is declared); Data Protection Policy
The University will ask all applicants who make an application to stay in University owned or managed accommodation to declare any unspent criminal convictions. We will use this information to ensure we adequately assess any risk posed to others staying in University owned or managed accommodation.
Spent convictions
A criminal conviction can become 'spent' after a period of time. The length of time it takes to become spent is defined by the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 and depends on the sentence or disposal made by the court following the conviction. Until that period has passed, the conviction is considered 'unspent' and should be declared. Please note the following:
Further convictions can impact when other convictions become spent.
Sentences of over four years in prison cannot become spent.
Most cautions, reprimands and final warnings become spent immediately, so will not normally be 'unspent'.
For more information, please consult the following:
Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974
Accommodation decisions (when an unspent conviction is declared)
If an applicant wishing to stay in accommodation declares an unspent criminal conviction the application will be passed to the Head of Accommodation Services who will contact the applicant to request further details of the offence, including, if applicable, references from probation officers. This information will then be sent to the Director of Student Experience who will carry out a risk assessment to confirm if by staying in university accommodation the applicant poses a risk to other students or staff.
The Director of Student Experience may make one of the following decisions:
The applicant can stay in university accommodation without any further conditions
The applicant can stay in university accommodation subject to further conditions
The applicant cannot stay in university accommodation
The University will only use information relating to criminal convictions where the law allows us to do so in line with our Data Protection Policy. Personal data relating to criminal convictions will be retained confidentially and securely and access to that data will be strictly controlled.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK
Admission queries UNUK
UNNC
Admission queries UNNC
UNM
Admissions queries UNM
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
27 January 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/admissions/alternative-prog-offers.aspx
Header: Alternative programme offers
Intro: This page concerns information about alternative offers that may be offered where an applicant's original choice is not appropriate. Its content is primarily aimed at current and prospective students, as well as staff, based within the UK.
Content:
Alternative programme offers - The University of NottinghamAlternative programme offers
This page concerns information about alternative offers that may be offered where an applicant's original choice is not appropriate. Its content is primarily aimed at current and prospective students, as well as staff, based within the UK.Alternative offers (at the original offer stage)
Includes:
timings; communication and UCAS Hub; consideration for reversal
In some cases, the admissions manager/tutor may not be able to make an offer for your chosen course but may make an offer for an alternative, related course. This may occur at the original offer stage or at confirmation.
If we are unable to make you an offer of a place on the original course for which you applied (due to competition for places or because you do not meet the exact entry requirements), we reserve the right to make you an offer on an alternative course.
If you are being made an offer for an alternative course, this will be made clear to you by way of UCAS Hub and your University of Nottingham Offer Letter. If you are being offered a choice of alternative courses, this will be communicated to you via email and you will be asked to select an alternative course before the offer is made officially.
If an alternative course offer is made and accepted at confirmation, consideration for change of course back to the original choice will only be considered if you meet the requirements, there are places available and your application was successful following interview.
Even if you subsequently meet the grades for your original choice, you will not automatically be considered for your original choice of course. If you wish to be, you are at liberty to contact the University through the appropriate route (for example, Clearing for UCAS entry).
Alternative offers (at the confirmation stage)
Includes:
receipt of results; choice; next steps
On receipt of your results, if you have accepted your offer as a firm or insurance choice but have not met the exact conditions of your offer, we may still make you an offer of an alternative course. This will be notified to you by way of email and will appear on UCAS Hub (for undergraduate applicants).
You are under no obligation to accept this alternative course offer. However, for undergraduate applicants, if you choose to decline the offer, you will either be released to your insurance choice or into Clearing.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK
Admission queries UNUK
UNNC
Admission queries UNNC
UNM
Admissions queries UNM
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
21 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/admissions/withdrawal-of-offer.aspx
Header: Withdrawal of offer
Intro: This page sets out the University's right to withdraw an offer of admission to one of its programmes if certain conditions are met. Its content is primarily aimed at prospective students to all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Withdrawal of offer - The University of NottinghamWithdrawal of offer
This page sets out the University's right to withdraw an offer of admission to one of its programmes if certain conditions are met. Its content is primarily aimed at prospective students to all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
Includes:
conditions of admission; the University's right to withdraw an offer
It is a condition of admission to a programme of study that the candidate has accurately and truthfully presented all of the relevant facts in their application.
The University retains the right to withdraw an offer of a place or terminate the registration of a student should it subsequently come to light that the information provided by an applicant in support of their application was inaccurate, incomplete or a misrepresentation of the applicant's academic and other achievements.
Additional links
Admissions Office
Student Services
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK
Admission queries UNUK
UNNC
Admission queries UNNC
UNM
Admissions queries UNM
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
12 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/admissions/informing-significant-changes-pre-registration.aspx
Header: Informing applicants about significant changes to a course of study before registration
Intro: This page provides guidance on how to communicate significant changes (to a course of study) to applicants before, and after, they have formally accepted an offer from the University. This information is primarily directed at staff based within the UK but may also be of interest to those at the international campuses.
Content:
Informing applicants about significant changes to a course of study before registration - The University of NottinghamInforming applicants about significant changes to a course of study before registration
This page provides guidance on how to communicate significant changes (to a course of study) to applicants before, and after, they have formally accepted an offer from the University. This information is primarily directed at staff based within the UK but may also be of interest to those at the international campuses.Overview
Includes:
communications responsibility; types of changes
All communications with applicants regarding significant changes to a course must be undertaken by the appropriate Admissions Office/Faculty Office/School Office. These changes might include:
Closure
Suspension
Withdrawal or granting of professional accreditation
Significant changes to programme content
Changes in costs
Accepted and unaccepted offers
Accepted offers
Applicants who have accepted offers should not be contacted until a closure/suspension recommendation has been accepted by Quality and Standards Committee (QSC). These applicants should then be informed of their options in regard to transferring their application to another course within the University or to another institution.
Unaccepted offers
Applicants who have been made offers, but have not yet accepted them, may however be contacted at an earlier stage to be informed that a closure/suspension recommendation has been made. Such applicants should be told that the offer of a place is suspended until a decision has been made and will be withdrawn if the recommendation is accepted.
Where relevant, UCAS should be notified by informing the University UCAS correspondent when the closure/suspension recommendation has been accepted by QSC.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK
Admission queries UNUK
UNNC
Admission queries UNNC
UNM
Admissions queries UNM
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
12 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/admissions/pol-inappropriate-applicant-behaviour.aspx
Header: Policy on inappropriate applicant behaviour
Intro: This page contains the University's policy on inappropriate applicant behaviour. Its content is primarily directed at applicants but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Policy on inappropriate applicant behaviour - The University of NottinghamPolicy on inappropriate applicant behaviour
This page contains the University's policy on inappropriate applicant behaviour. Its content is primarily directed at applicants but may also be of interest to staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Introduction
Includes:
University expectations; potential actions
The University has clear expectations about the behaviour of members of its community. Details about the standards of behaviour expected and associated policies can be found on the University’s website. For more information, please consult the following:
Student Community
Student Conduct
The University is committed to ensuring that any interaction with an applicant
1
is conducted in a professional, courteous and respectful manner and it expects that any communication from an applicant is conducted in the same way.
1
For the avoidance of doubt, “applicant” in the context of this policy refers to both those who are currently in the process of applying to the University and offer holders. In terms of this policy, a person remains an “applicant” until the point of registration.
Applicants should note that the University may take action in response to inappropriate behaviour or language, both generally and specifically towards its employees or members of the wider University community (including other applicants). Hostile, aggressive or otherwise inappropriate behaviour or language, whether expressed verbally or in writing, and excessive levels of contact, will be viewed seriously and may adversely affect the consideration of an application, appeal or complaint.
Where the University becomes aware of inappropriate language or behaviour by applicants, it will act to address this. The University will normally warn an applicant that his or her behaviour or language is inappropriate and that action is being considered, but where the behaviour or language is particularly inappropriate no warning need be given before action is taken. Such action may include the withdrawal of an offer or the rejection of an application. Conduct which constitutes a criminal offence may be referred to the relevant authorities.
Process
Includes:
basis; potential actions; further investigation; role of Director of Student and Campus Life
Where inappropriate behaviour or language is identified as requiring action it will be brought to the attention of the Director of Student and Campus Life. At that time, the applicant will be contacted by Admissions and asked to provide an explanation for the identified inappropriate problematic behaviour. On the basis of the evidence collated the Director of Student and Campus Life will take one of three actions:
1.
Make a judgment on the basis of the available evidence and take one of the outlined actions within this process
2.
Initiate an investigation to ensure that sufficient evidence is available to make an appropriate judgment
3.
Dismiss the concern
Where it is felt that further investigation is required, the Director of Student and Campus Life will commission this investigation from the Investigation and Conduct department within Campus Life. Whilst staff from Admissions and other departments may be used to assist with the collation of evidence, the Investigation and Conduct department must lead any investigation to ensure the independence of the investigation.
Where the Director of Student and Campus Life believes they have sufficient evidence to make a judgment, they will choose one of the following actions:
1)
Dismiss the concern
2)
Provide the applicant with a formal written warning
3)
Reject any/all applications made
4)
Withdraw any offer that has been made to the applicant.
To assist with their decision making, the Campus Life Director can take guidance and advice from colleagues on any case.
Appeal
Includes:
process; consideration; potential outcomes
An applicant may appeal an outcome of this process but must do so within seven days of receipt of written confirmation of the outcome. Appeals cannot be a rehearing of the original case and can only be brought on the following grounds:
Where there is fresh evidence not initially considered that might reasonably have resulted in a different decision
Where there was a procedural irregularity
Where the decision taken by the Director of Student and Campus Life is manifestly unreasonable
Appeals will be heard by the Deputy Registrar. Where the Deputy Registrar had involvement in the original case, the appeal will be heard by the Registrar. Upon considering the appeal, the Deputy Registrar may:
1.
Allow the appeal and either:
a.
Reduce the outcome
b.
Dismiss the original concern
2.
Dismiss the appeal
The decision of the Deputy Registrar is final.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK
Admission queries UNUK
UNNC
Admission queries UNNC
UNM
Admissions queries UNM
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
25 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/prog-and-mod-design-and-approval/changes-to-prog-mod-specs.aspx
Header: Changes to programme and module specifications
Intro: This page outlines the regulations about making any changes to curriculum, that is, changes to programme and module specifications. Its content is primarily directed at staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses but may also be of interest to students and prospective students.
Content:
Changes to programme and module specifications - The University of NottinghamChanges to programme and module specifications
This page outlines the regulations about making any changes to curriculum, that is, changes to programme and module specifications. Its content is primarily directed at staff across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses but may also be of interest to students and prospective students.1.0 Purpose
This page provides more information about making changes to programme and module specifications.
2.0 Key principles
Schools are expected to submit all curriculum changes, specifically changes to programme and module specifications, to Registry and Academic Affairs (RAA) in the UK or local academic services unit (ASU) at UNNC or Student Registry office at UNM by the published deadlines.
The reasons for this are:
Curriculum information in Campus Solutions is published to internal and external audiences via the Online Curriculum Catalogue and in the Online Prospectus
Students use information in the Online Curriculum Catalogue to inform module selection for the next academic year
Prospective students may use information in the Online Prospectus to help them decide whether to apply to study at the University of Nottingham
We are required to provide students with accurate material information about their programme of study in good time to ensure adherence with Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) guidelines
All curriculum change must be obtain the necessary relevant School and/or faculty level approvals prior to its formal submission to RAA/ASU/SRO.
Information about curriculum sits within the programme and module specifications and is also used to inform the Online Prospectus.
There are set deadlines during the academic year when curriculum information can be updated. The deadlines are different in the UK depending on whether the changes relate to items that are considered ‘material’ or not.
More information about the Annual Review of Curriculum is provided here:
Annual review of curriculum
2.1 Programme specification changes requiring consultation or notification
When making changes to programme specifications, in some circumstances (see below) it is necessary to communicate and/or consult with particular student groups.
Where changes to programmes of study fit into one of the categories below, Schools/ must consult with all current students that will be directly affected by the planned changes at the first opportunity, and students must be given the chance to comment on the changes.
Changes to progression requirements which make progression more difficult.
Changes to award or classification procedures which may make it more difficult for a student to receive an award or a higher class of award.
A change to the administration of a programme by a different school.
Any changes to material information of a programme (except changes to material items which are solely for the benefit of students).  Material information includes (but is not limited to) core modules, programme title, location of study, duration of study, external accreditation, award type, assessment at programme level and delivery of teaching at programme level. Please see Appendix 1 of the
University of Nottingham’s Consumer Protection Policy
which provides a full list of information which is considered “material”.
Material changes which are for the benefit of students (i.e. changes that enhance their learning experience) must be communicated to them but consultation is not required. Schools are responsible for communicating such changes to their students.
Where students object to the planned change(s), the School will need to seek approval from QSC for the proposal (if it still wishes to go ahead).
In the case of changes to undergraduate award or classification procedures (such as a change to degree class weightings), the changes must not apply to any existing Part I, II, or III students without their explicit written consent.
2.2 Module changes requiring consultation/notification
When making changes to module specifications, in some circumstances (see below) it is necessary to communicate and/or consult with particular student groups.
Schools must communicate with students affected by any planned curriculum changes to core modules fitting into the categories below at the first opportunity and they must be given the opportunity to comment on the changes:
Changes to the learning outcomes of the module
Changes to the manner in which the module is assessed
A change to the assessment regulations which makes it more difficult for a student to pass the module
Any changes to material information of a module (except changes which are solely for the benefit of students).  Material information includes (but is not limited to) core modules and location of study. Please see Appendix 1 of the
University of Nottingham’s Consumer Protection Policy
which provides a full list of information which is considered “material”.
Material changes which are for the benefit of students must be communicated but consultation is not required. Schools are responsible for communicating such changes to their students.
The credit amount or level of a module may not be altered; such changes require the creation of a new module.
If any of the above changes are to optional modules which occur prior to the start of the session in which the amended optional module will be delivered, but after returning students have selected that module, then these changes must be communicated to students at the earliest opportunity and they must be given the opportunity to comment.
2.3 Changes to programmes requiring QSC approval
Approval on behalf of Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) is required for the following changes to programme specifications:
Changes which are contrary to the guidelines for programme specifications, the University's Qualifications Framework, or any other University policy or regulation
Significant changes to the programme structure (section C.2 of the programme specification). It is the school’s responsibility when changing section C.2 to ensure that no changes to the learning outcomes are required
Changes to section C.2 which affect another School and where the other School has objected to the change. Please note, a school changing section C.2 of any of its programmes has a responsibility to consult another School directly affected by that change
Any changes to curricula to which the majority of  students are opposed
2.4 Changes to modules requiring QSC approval
Approval on behalf of Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) is required for changes to module specification information which are contrary to the module specifications guidelines, or any other University policy or regulation; or to which any students currently enrolled on the module are opposed.
2.5 Method of communication with students
Schools must ensure that all relevant students have been consulted on planned changes as described above, including those who are on a break in their learning.
Whilst planned changes can be communicated and discussed at the Staff Student Forum (SSF), Schools must ensure that all students are sent the information personally and have a mechanism for students to provide any feedback (e.g. via email). Evidence of consultation must be provided to Registry and Academic Affairs (UK), Academic Services Unit (UNNC) or Student Registry Office (UNM)along with the change(s).
If there are any majority objections to the planned change(s), the School will need to seek approval for the proposal (if it still wishes to go ahead) from QSC before proceeding.
3.0 Related regulations, policies and procedures
More information about deadlines for curriculum change is provided here:
Curriculum review for programme and module specifications
More information about updating curriculum information is provided here
Curriculum review for programme and module specifications
For more information about how to complete a programme specification
Programme specification guidance
New/revised curriculum maps are required with all programme specification changes.  A template for a curriculum map can be found here:
Curriculum map
For more information about how to complete a module specification
Module specification guidance
For more information about curriculum and timelines updating see:
Curriculum Approvals and Advisory Team (CAAT) SharePoint (internal UK only)
Significant changes to the programme structure may also require the programme to be re-approved. For further information see:
New programme by change
For more information about Consumer Protection Policy (includes list of material information in Appendix 1):
University of Nottingham's Consumer Protection Policy
4.0 Version control table
Version control table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Changes made to combine the programme and module specification changes pages as well as to update in relation to when to consult with students.  Also reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework
QSC
August 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please email:
ss-curriculumadvice@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
20 September 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/prog-and-mod-design-and-approval/closing-or-suspending-prog.aspx
Header: Closing or suspending a programme
Intro: This page sets out the University's procedures for closing or suspending a programme of study. While it is primarily intended for staff across the UK, China and Malaysia campuses, it may be of interest to students.
Content:
Closing or suspending a programme - The University of NottinghamClosing or suspending a programme
This page sets out the University's procedures for closing or suspending a programme of study. While it is primarily intended for staff across the UK, China and Malaysia campuses, it may be of interest to students.1.0 Purpose
This page outlines the procedures for closing or suspending a programme of study at the University. It aims to protect the interests of students, applicants and the University by detailing the necessary steps and considerations for such actions.
2.0 Key principles
A School cannot independently close or suspend a programme due to the contractual obligations between students, applicants, and the University.  Decisions to close or suspend a programme may be driven by several factors, including, but not limited to:
The programme is not financially viable
Low enrolment (averaging ten of fewer students over three years) (UK only - see also administrative closures below)
Strategic changes in the school/faculty teaching portfolio
Unavailability of teaching staff that cannot be replaced
Recommendations from Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies (PSRBs)
Strategic decisions at the University level
2.1 Timing
Decisions to close or suspend a programme of study must be taken in good time, and wherever possible, before programmes are advertised to students (around 18-21 months before the closure or suspension is to take effect). However, strategic or other reasons may necessitate shorter notice periods.
This is to ensure the University meets it obligations in relation to Consumer Protection Law (CPL) and Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) guidance.  In the UK, programmes of study are advertised to prospective students in the Online UG or PGT Course Prospectus (see publication dates below).
UK Publishing dates for UG and PGT Course Prospectus
Undergraduate Prospectus
Publication c. 1 March in the calendar year before students commence the course (for example, March 2024 for 25/26 entry)
Postgraduate Taught Prospectus
Publication c. 1 July in the calendar year before students commence the course (for example, July 2024 for 25/26 entry)
3.0 Roles and responsibilities
Schools and Faculty staff are responsible to seek local approval to close or suspend a programme in accordance with local procedures, including consulting with partner Schools and current students as applicable.  Then it is necessary to follow the procedure below to request the closure/suspension.
When a request to close or suspend a programme is submitted the RAA curriculum team will gather data on prospective and current students and make a recommendation to the relevant Faculty.  If there are no applicants or impacted students, the Associate Director (Curriculum and Timetabling) or the Senior Manager (Head of Curriculum) can approve requests to close or suspend programmes (otherwise the cases go to QSC for approval).  After approval, RAA will liaise with the relevant departments.
If a programme closure or suspension affects prospective students, then all communications with applicants must be undertaken by External Relations and Admissions or equivalent.
4.0 Procedural steps
4.1 School and Faculty endorsement
School and Faculty endorsement is required to close or suspend a programme. All closures and suspensions, including administrative closures, will require endorsement at School and Faculty level before making the formal request.
Endorsement for the closure or suspension of a programme must be sought at School level first (e.g. from Education and Student Experience Committee, Head of School, UNNC school meeting), followed by endorsement from the Faculty (in the UK this would be from the FPVC or FAPVC, UNNC Faculty Executive Board and UNM Campus Teaching and Learning Committee).
There may be local variations for seeking endorsement, depending on School, Faculty or campus structures in UNM/UNNC; however, at the end of this stage there must be clear evidence of support from both the School and the Faculty to close or suspend the programme. Endorsement can be recorded via email or noted in committee minutes; evidence of endorsement must be retained for audit purposes.
4.2 Consultation with other Schools/Campuses, as necessary
For joint, major/minor, and interdisciplinary courses, agreement from the partner School(s) is required before submitting a formal closure or suspension request. Programmes offered on multiple campuses should have consensus across all campuses prior to submitting the formal request to close or suspend the programme.
At the University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM) and the University of Nottingham Ningbo Campus (UNNC), the view of the relevant campus committee must be sought prior to the submission of a formal recommendation, so that the impact of the decision on the University as a whole can be taken into consideration.
If there are any HR implications in relation to the closure or suspension of a programme, Schools must contact the relevant Faculty HR Business Partner for advice.
4.3 Consultation with current students
If the recommendation to close or suspend the programme only affects new entrants (and not current students), then all current students must be allowed to complete their studies, for example, including any students on leave of absence/break in studies or who have a deferred place. A comprehensive teach out plan must be provided with the request.
Where the recommendation is to close or suspend the programme and current students will be affected in some way, the views of current students (including those on leave of absence/break in studies) on the proposed arrangements must be sought by the School before submitting the request.
The consultation must encompass the following:
Confirmation that the standard of provision to current students will be maintained throughout their period of study and
Confirmation that the previously stated learning outcomes of the programme of study will still be achievable by current students, even if the range of module choices is smaller because of staffing reductions or
Options for current students regarding transferring to another programme of study within the University or to another institution
Schools have autonomy over how they invite students to share their views; however, Schools must ensure all affected students are directly contacted and invited to express their views if they wish. Receiving views from students might include one of more or the following methods:
Email
Student Staff Fora discussion
Running an in-person seminar/ drop-in session
Running a Teams session
Moodle discussion
The School will be expected to provide, and retain for audit purposes, evidence that all affected students have been contacted on the proposed formal notification to close or suspend a programme of study, including detail about any objections raised by students in the consultation. Discussion at Student Staff Fora alone will not be sufficient to confirm direct contact with all students. Records of the consultation(s) must be retained by the School.
4.4 Complete the programme closure/suspension form
Once Schools have appropriate School and Faculty endorsement and have consulted with programme partners and students as required (see above), the School must complete the form to formally request the programme closure or suspension.
Request to close or suspend a programme of study - MS form
The form requires the School to provide information in support of the recommendation, including:
The reason for the closure or suspension
Confirmation of the number of applications and/or offer holders
Identification of all stakeholders affected by the closure/suspension and anticipated impact on them, for example, Schools, Campuses, Contractual Partners, Recruiting Agents, Employers and any proposed arrangements/mitigations (if applicable)
Impact on, or changes to, our contractual obligations with existing students. This includes part time students or any students who are on a leave of absence/break in learning. If there is an impact, include details of any consultation that has taken place with students and objections raised. If there is no impact on current students, the ‘teach out’ strategy must be made clear
The proposed arrangements for applicants and offer holders (if applicable)
4.5 Administrative closure
Closing a programme with no current students, applicants or offer holders is referred to as an administrative closure.
For UNUK programmes with no current students, applicants or offer holders may be closed outside of the aforementioned UK closure/suspension time restrictions, with appropriate School and Faculty approval.
4.6 Consultation with the wider University
For programmes with either current students, applicants or offer holders, the following must also be undertaken:
Upon receiving the closure/suspension form, RAA will consult with the wider university to ensure the implications and consequences for prospective and current students, including those on leave of absence from their studies/break in studies, have been considered and mitigated.
The departments to be consulted include:
Faculty Marketing and Finance Teams
Student Recruitment Team Current students (if applicable) Partners, and/or relevant teams in RAA responsible for partnership activity (if partnership)
Professional and Work Based Learning Team (if apprenticeship)
Professional/statutory/regulatory bodies (if applicable)
Head of Strategic Partners (if TUNIC offer holders are affected)
Relevant teams in RAA regarding the status of students on leave of absence/break in studies
Concerns raised during this consultation will be communicated back to the School for comment.
4.7 Approval process
Recommendations for closure or suspension of programmes where there are no applicants or offer holders, and/or where the School demonstrates that there is no impact on current students, including those on leave of absence/break in studies, or other stakeholders, will be approved by the Associate Director (Curriculum and Timetabling) or the Senior Manager (Head of Curriculum) on behalf of the Quality and Standards Committee (QSC).
All other cases will be submitted to QSC for consideration. Legal advice may also be sought in certain cases.
The recommendation to close or suspend the programme will only be accepted if the rationale is sufficiently strong enough to justify any legal or reputational risk or disruption to applicants, offer holders, students and/or other stakeholders. The requirements in the previous sections must also be satisfied.
4.8 Next steps after approval
When a recommendation for suspension or closure is approved, RAA will inform the following departments:
The departments to be informed include:
Faculty Marketing Team (to consider marketing implications of closure or suspension)
Faculty Finance Team (to consider financial implications of closure or suspension)
Student Recruitment Team (to consider recruitment implications of closure or suspension, and confirm the current number of applications/offers)
Current students (if applicable, see above)
Partners, and/or relevant teams in RAA responsible for partnership activity (if partnership)
Professional and Work Based Learning Team (if apprenticeship)
Professional/statutory/regulatory bodies (if applicable)
Head of Strategic Partners (if TUNIC offer holders are affected)
Relevant teams in Registry and Academic Affairs (RAA) regarding the status of students on leave of absence/break in studies
Once a closure or suspension recommendation has been accepted, the School must ensure that all necessary amendments are made to School publications and websites, and RAA to all University publications and websites.
After approval is obtained for the suspension or closure, then RAA will notify UCAS, if applicable, by informing the University's UCAS correspondent.
4.9 Communication with prospective students
If a programme closure or suspension affects prospective students, then all communications with applicants must be undertaken by External Relations and Admissions or equivalent.
Applicants must not be contacted until a closure or suspension request has been approved; however, Admissions may, at the request of the School and in consultation with RAA, suspend applications until a decision has been made. Schools need to consider and agree options for offer holders (including those that have accepted offers) before they are informed.
If you would like any further information about the programme of study closure or suspension process, please email:
ss-curriculumadvice@nottingham.ac.uk
5.0 Version control table
Version control table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Changes to clarify the process to request closure or suspension of a programme.  Also reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework
QSC
August 2024
If you would like any further information about the programme closure or suspension process, please email:
ss-curriculumadvice@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
20 September 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/prog-and-mod-design-and-approval/new-programme-by-change.aspx
Header: New Programme by Change
Intro: This page contains instructions for the approval of new programmes by change. Its content is primarily directed at staff on all campuses but may also be of interest to students and prospective students.
Content:
New Programme by Change - The University of NottinghamNew Programme by Change
This page contains instructions for the approval of new programmes by change. Its content is primarily directed at staff on all campuses but may also be of interest to students and prospective students.1.0 Purpose
This page contains instructions for the approval of new programmes by change, to be offered by the University on all campuses. This includes approval for changes to micro-credential programmes offered by UoNO.
‘New programmes by change’ are defined as curriculum change requests to existing programmes where the proposed curriculum change is either a significant change at one time point or incremental changes over time which would lead to (or have led to), effectively, a new programme.
The purpose of the approval process is to ensure that appropriate academic standards are set and maintained, and that programmes offered to students make available learning opportunities which enable the intended learning outcomes to be achieved.
2.0 Key principles
In order to meet the responsibility for academic standards and quality of learning opportunities, please consult the UK Quality code for HE advice and guidance, QAA Characteristics statements and QAA Subject benchmark statements (see links below). The University regulations on minimum expectations relating to teaching and learning must also be consulted.
2.1 Free speech
When developing a new programme, appropriate regard must be given to the importance of promoting free speech.
Please consult the following for further information about the Freedom of Speech Act:
Free Speech and Academic Freedom at the University of Nottingham
Office for Students guidance on free speech.
2.2 Academic freedom
In relation to programme and module development, approval, and delivery, it should be noted that academics would not be prohibited from developing or delivering a programme or module on the ground that it involves giving serious consideration to ‘controversial or unpopular opinions’. This is not a reason that the programme would be approved, rather it is not a reason it could be declined. For instance, there will remain business or logistical reasons to not grant approval to a programme or module.
2.3 Guidance about what constitutes a new programme by change
There are opportunities to make changes to existing programmes of study without the need for reapproval of the whole programme (see the ’Annual Review of Curriculum’ Quality Manual page for more details (link below). However, significant changes to the curriculum constituting a new programme by change, as described above, will require approval of the programme of study as a new programme; referred to as 'new programme by change'.
To help Schools understand whether proposed changes to existing programmes of study will require approval as a new programme, the following guidance has been developed.
New programme approval scenarios and requirements
Scenario
New programme approval required
Changes to programme learning outcomes
This may be considered a new programme by change for approval purposes if the changes to programme learning outcomes significantly alter the skills and knowledge that a student will have acquired and what students will be able to do upon successful completion of their studies.
Changes to programme structure
This may be considered a new programme by change for approval purposes if:
There are significant revisions to a programme’s core modules either in one year or across the whole programme. For example, if more than half of core modules are changing.  However this does depend on the mix of core and optional modules. Revisions to core modules might include:
Adding/removing modules
Moving modules within the programme structure
Replacing old modules with new ones
Replacing old modules with new ones of a different credit value
Increasing/decreasing the core/optional credit split
There are significant revisions to optionality. This will be particularly important for programmes which have a higher ratio of optional to core modules, or those that use restricted or alternative groups of modules
Not all proposed programme changes may fit neatly into one of the above scenarios because they may include changes to multiple elements which change the programme significantly from what was originally approved.
For further advice and guidance about whether the changes you are considering would be a new programme by change, please contact:
ss-curriculumadvice@nottingham.ac.uk
2.4  Timeline for approval and CMA considerations (UNUK Only)
To meet the university’s UKs publishing deadlines for the undergraduate and postgraduate prospectus, and to achieve a full cycle of marketing, Schools must aim for their programme to be developed and approved at least 5 weeks ahead of the publishing deadlines in the table below.
UK Prospectus Publishing deadlines for UG and PGT programmes
Undergraduate
1 March in the calendar year before students commence the course (e.g. 1 March 2024 for 25/26 entry)
Postgraduate Taught
1 July in the calendar year before students commence the course (e.g. 1 July 2024 for 25/26 entry)
There may be occasions when Schools request the introduction of a new programme by change after the release of the online prospectus. Each request will be carefully considered by RAA, Marketing, Admissions, the Legal team and other key individuals in the University as appropriate. For new programmes by change the main consideration would be risks relating to Consumer and Markets Authority (CMA) guidance, and specifically changing curriculum information which is material to prospective student decisions. In these circumstances the
Late Change approval process
will be followed.
2.5 Latest dates for programme approval (all campuses)
Separate to the prospectus deadlines above, the latest possible dates for programme approval are detailed in the table below. Changes this late should be exceptional requests only. Colleagues are expected to  build in time contingences to their development timelines to allow for possible delays, for example if the Programme Review Panel ask for major revisions to be submitted to the next panel or if the stakeholder consultation surfaces issues which need time to be resolved. It is recommended that colleagues aim for one or two panels earlier than the latest possible dates to ensure programmes are approved in time for planned start dates.
Latest dates for obtaining university approval for new programmes
Require UCAS recruitment
Require timetabling
Latest date for university approval
Yes
Yes
31 July in the calendar year before students commence the course
No
Yes
31 January in the same calendar year students commence the course
No
No
31 July in the same calendar year students commence the course
For further advice and guidance about timelines for submission and approval, please email:
ss-curriculumadvice@nottingham.ac.uk
3.0 Roles and responsibilities
It is not necessary to get School and Faculty endorsement for a new programme by change. It will be necessary to show that the School has approved the curriculum changes with their School education and student experience committees or equivalent  in the usual manner.  A full and/or addendum business case is not needed either.
The School are responsible to complete the new programme by change outline form. This includes liaison with stakeholders e.g. affected Schools, employers, students and external advice as appropriate.
RAA colleagues will review the new programme by change outline form and liaise with necessary University colleagues.
Schools planning significant changes to their programmes are expected to consult with Registry and Academic Affairs (RAA), Student Registry Office (SRO) or Academic Services Unit (AMU) (for UNUK, UNM and UNNC respectively), to discuss their plans and be appropriately advised which route to follow (i.e. curriculum change or new programme by change). Schools that submit significant changes through the curriculum review cycle which need to instead follow the new programme by change process will be contacted, advised accordingly and asked to resubmit by this route.
4.0 Procedural steps
The new programme by change process is a condensed version of the new programme approval process; not requiring external advice or a full or addendum business case.
The new programme by change process set out below needs to be read in conjunction with the new programme by change process flow charts, which can be accessed here:
New programme by change flow chart (UNUK)
New programme by change flow chart (UNM)
New programme by change flow chart (UNNC)
Please note, colleagues in UNM and UNNC complete each of the required steps for new programme by change but vary the order of completion due to local campus structures. These are reflected in the flow charts.
4.1   Completion of new programme by change outline form
Schools must confirm their intentions to make significant changes to their programme by submitting brief details on the new programme by change outline form. This is to ensure that relevant university colleagues are aware of developments.
The new programme by change form can be found here:
New programmes by change outline Form
4.2   Development of curriculum documentation
The next step in the process is for the School to prepare the curriculum documentation, i.e. the programme specification, the module specification and the curriculum map, plus any partnership agreements (if required).
Upon receipt of the new programme by change outline Form, RAA will assign a Business Partner to work with the School to assist in the development of their curriculum documentation.
The partnering process will ensure Schools receive appropriate and useful advice about University regulations and operability of programmes in any systems. RAA will seek advice from relevant professional services colleagues on any areas which might need specialist input. For new programmes by change, the Marketing Team will be consulted to ensure compliance with Consumer and Markets Authority (CMA) guidance (UK only).
If the new programme also requires a partnership agreement, Schools must submit curriculum documentation with the partnership agreement to the Partnership Operational Development Meeting (POD) so they can be considered together.
For more information about partnership approval process please consult the following:
Partnership and Placements
The Business Partner from RAA will confirm with the School when all curriculum documentation are  complete and meet the required standard in terms of university regulations and operability in any systems. The application will then proceed to the next stage.
4.3   Consultation on curriculum documentation
RAA will make available the curriculum documentation (programme specification, module specifications, curriculum map, and partnership agreement if applicable) to a wide range of internal stakeholders across the University, including Schools, Faculties and Professional Services Departments, for a two-week period for scrutiny. This is the final opportunity for stakeholder queries to be raised.
During this process the stakeholders may send comments/queries for the School to address.
The School must respond to the comments/queries raised by stakeholders during this consultation process in a timely manner and address them to the stakeholder’s satisfaction. Otherwise this may lead to delays in approval.
Any unresolved issues raised during the consultation period will be referred to a Programme Review Panel for consideration and approval (see below).
4.4   New programme by change approval – no outstanding issues
Programmes of study which have no unresolved issues from the consultation with stakeholders, and do not present any challenging operational or regulatory issues, will be approved by Senior Manager (Head of Curriculum) or an Associate Director in Registry and Academic Affairs on behalf of Quality and Standards Committee (QSC).
4.5 New programme by change approval - at a Programme Review Panel
All other programme by change requests will be put forward for consideration at the next available Programme Review Panel for approval. Representatives from the School must attend the Programme Review Panel to respond to questions.
Panel dates are published prior to the start of the academic year, with around six meetings scheduled in each academic year. The ‘next available date’ will take into consideration time for the Programme Review Panel to consider the documentation in advance. As a general guide, papers for the previous step need to be submitted to RAA at least one month prior to the Programme Review Panel to allow time to complete the two-week Stakeholder Consultation and for the Programme Review Panel to consider the documentation in advance.
The Programme Review Panel at a minimum will consist of two QSC members, one of which will take the role of Chair, and senior representation from RAA: normally the Senior Manager (Head of Curriculum) or delegate. The academic lead(s) for the programme of study being considered will be expected to attend the panel and answer any queries put to them. Other colleagues may be invited to attend the panel if they have noted issues on the business case or during the consultation that are yet to be resolved.
In considering the curriculum documentation, the Programme Review Panel will:
Make a judgement on any issues that fall outside the current scope of the Quality Manual.
Review the operability of the proposed new programme, considering stakeholder feedback in relation to this.
Consider the key academic aspects of programme specification – that is, the learning outcomes and how they will be taught and assessed. This consideration will be largely limited to ensuring that the learning outcomes are appropriate to the level of qualification being awarded.
Ensure that there has been adequate consultation with other affected Schools, and that any comments or objections from these other Schools have been appropriately addressed.
Ensure that the overall programme has coherence in terms of logic in structure, intellectual integrity and assessment methods being aligned with programme content, learning outcomes and learning and teaching activities.
The Panel can either:
Approve (either outright or with minor changes which can be returned for final approval by Chair’s Action within an agreed timeframe)
Ask for major revisions to be submitted to a future panel
Reject the proposal
The decision of the Programme Review Panel will be communicated by RAA to the School and other university stakeholders.
4.6 Regulatory approval for new programmes by change (UNM/UNNC only)
Programmes in UNM and UNNC will require a further approval from local authorities before a programme is launched. In UNM approval is required from the Malaysian Qualifications Agency (MQA) and the Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE). In UNNC approval is required from the Ministry of Education (MOE). The SRO and ASU  in UNM and UNNC respectively will help support this process.
4.7 After the programme is approved
After approval is obtained for the new programme by change (see previous steps), the programme will be created in the student records system, UCAS codes created (if applicable) and opened for marketing/recruitment. Programme and module specifications will be published online in the Online Course Catalogue, which then becomes the definitive record.
Students may not be registered on a programme until the programme has been fully approved.
5.0 Related regulations, policies and procedures
For further advice and guidance on any aspect of new programme by change approval, please email:
ss-curriculumadvice@nottingham.ac.uk
For more information about the UoN Qualifications Framework, please see:
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (section 7)
For more information about making changes to programmes of study via the annual curriculum review cycle, please consult the following:
Changes to programme specifications
Closing or suspending a programme
Programmes
See the ’Annual Review of Curriculum’ Quality Manual page for more details about how to make changes to existing programmes of study without the need for reapproval of the whole programme:
Annual updating of curriculum
For more information about the UK Quality Code for HE Advice and Guidance and QAA guidance, please see:
UK Quality Code for Higher Education Advice and Guidance – Course Design and Development
QAA Characteristic Statements
QAA Subject Benchmark Statements
For more information about the University's minimum expectations relating to teaching and learning, please consult the following:
Minimum expectations for levels of teaching and learning activity
For more information about relevant contacts in RAA relating to curriculum, please consult the following page:
Curriculum Approvals and Advisory Team (internal SharePoint)
For more information about partnership approval process please consult the following:
Partnership and placements
For more information concerning programme specifications, please consult the following:
Programme specification guidance
For more information concerning module specifications, please consult the following:
Module specification guidance
For Programme Review panel dates, please consult the following:
Programme Review Panel dates (internal SharePoint)
6.0 Version control table
Version control table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with the new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework
QSC
August 2024
For further advice and guidance on any aspect of programme approval, please email:
ss-curriculumadvice@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
05 February 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/prog-and-mod-design-and-approval/external-advice-prog-approval.aspx
Header: External advice in programme approval
Intro: This page contains requirements in relation to external advice in programme approval. Its content is primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
External advice in programme approval - The University of NottinghamExternal advice in programme approval
This page contains requirements in relation to external advice in programme approval. Its content is primarily directed at staff but may also be of interest to students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1.0 Purpose
This page sets out the regulations in relation to external advice in programme approval to help staff who are completing programme specifications.
2.0 Key principles
2.1  Requirements
Schools must seek external advice when developing a new programme of study.
The external adviser’s comments will provide constructive advice to the school on the proposed programme, which will inform developments of the programme. However, there may be instances when the school considers the comments but decides not to incorporate certain elements into the proposal.
This would consist of advice from some, or all, of the following groups:
External advisers who provide relevant information and guidance on current developments in the discipline(s)
Acadamic peers external to the institution*
Academic peers from other disciplines within the institution
Any programme partners, for example, institutions with which there are collaborative arrangements
Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies (PSRBs)**
External stakeholders e.g. employers **
Students and alumni
*External advice must always be sought from an academic peer external to the institution when developing a new programme.
**External advice must always be sought from employers and/or professional bodies where a new programme is aimed at preparing students for a particular profession.
Advice or guidance received from external advisers in the development of the business case must be noted in the relevant section on the business case.
Formal advice from academic peers, needed for all new programmes of study, must be provided on the template provided below (the ‘External Advice for a New Programme of Study’ Form). It is expected that academic peer(s) complete this form once they have seen the relevant programme specification and business case to ensure a thorough review.
All external advice must be submitted with the other curriculum documentation required for new programmes.
2.2  What to request from the external adviser
The role of the external adviser is to provide independent and professionally objective advice to the school on the development of a new programme of study. The external adviser should be asked to comment on:
The existence of a market for the new programme
The likelihood of the programme recruiting to stated targets
The reasonableness of the resources required for the programme
The validity and relevance of the proposed programme with reference to external reference points (such as Subject Benchmark Statements)
The definition and appropriateness of standards in accordance with the level and title of the award
The relationship between the proposed programme and current research in the same area
The overall coherence and intellectual integrity of the programme
The relationship of the programme to the Framework for Higher Education Qualifications
The relationship of the programme to any other external reference points
2.3  Template for the provision of external advice by an academic peer
For a template on the provision of external advice, please refer to the business case stage (section 5) of the new programme approval process, link in Section 3.0
3.0 Related regulations, policies and procedures
For more information about the programme approval process and development of a business case, please consult the following:
Programme design, development and approval
For further information about external advice in relation to new programme approval, please contact:
ss-curriculumadvice@nottingham.ac.uk
4.0 Version control table
Version control table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Changes made to timing of external advice on programmes.  Also reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework
QSC
August 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 August 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/registration-and-attendance/regs-governing-registration.aspx
Header: Regulations governing registration
Intro: This page contains the University's regulations in relation to the formal registration of full and part-time students, including how their registration status affects their ability to access key services. This information is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses – where information is campus-specific, this has been clearly indicated.
Content:
Regulations governing registration - The University of NottinghamRegulations governing registration
This page contains the University's regulations in relation to the formal registration of full and part-time students, including how their registration status affects their ability to access key services. This information is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses – where information is campus-specific, this has been clearly indicated.Please note that students in the UK on a Student Route visa are also affected by the University's Policy on Immigration Sponsorship. Where academic policies and immigration policies seem to be contradictory, immigration policies will take precedence. For more information, please consult the following:
Immigration sponsorship
University of Nottingham Ningbo China-specific
Includes:
overview; link to Academic Services - UNNC
The regulations on this page (in the following sections) apply only to the UK (UNUK) and University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM) campuses.
The registration regulations for the University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC) are published on the Academic services area of the UNNC website.
For more information, please consult the following:
Registration regulations – UNNC
Registration and registered status
Includes:
requirements for UK and Malaysia campuses; completion of process; criteria for discontinuing status; link to regulations governing attendance and engagement; guidance on non-registered statuses
These regulations apply to the UK (UNUK) and Malaysia (UNM) campuses. The registration regulations for the Ningbo campus are published on the Academic Services website of the China (UNNC) campus.
1.1
Only a Registered Student may follow a programme of study leading to a University award, have access to relevant services and facilities (including attendance at classes, and assessment), and be entitled to the rights and privileges of University membership as a student. A student who is not registered is not entitled to any of the above except where otherwise stated in regulations.
1.2
On admission a student must complete a formal registration process. They will then be a Registered Student.
1.3
Thereafter, until the end of their programme of study, and normally at the start of each academic year, a student is required to complete the formal registration process again, unless for other reasons set out in regulations such registration is not allowed or is not appropriate. (For instance, a student owing fees will not be allowed to register, or a student who has interrupted their studies need not register.) Completing the registration process will renew the status as a Registered Student for that academic year.
1.4
In order to complete the formal registration process students must:
Complete in person attendance requirements at the University of Nottingham
Confirm that they will obey the Ordinances and Regulations of the University which are in force during their period of study, including those governing the payment of fees and other sums due to the University, those governing progress in studies, attendance, engagement and conduct, and those covering the use of University Computer Facilities
Check for accuracy and completeness the information held by the University regarding their relevant personal details and about their programme of study, and amend such information as necessary, using an approved method
1.5
The University will publish the final deadline date for Registration for the next academic year. If a student fails to complete the formal registration process (as defined in Regulation 1.4 above) by that deadline, they will not be a Registered Student for that academic year and they will be suspended from study. Such a student will be allowed to register for that academic year in exceptional circumstances only, and may be required to pay a late registration fee.
1.6
During an academic year a Registered Student may stop being a Registered Student either temporarily or permanently, in circumstances specified by Regulations. Guidance on the meaning of Non-Registered Statuses is available. Re-registration does not imply satisfactory completion of a previous stage of study.
1.7
Students on modular taught programmes are also required to undertake a formal module enrolment process. The University will announce annually the final deadline date for completion of module enrolment for each semester. Students who fail to complete the formal enrolment process by that deadline will be enrolled for modules determined by their Head of School.
1.8
No student who is following a full-time programme in the University will be permitted to undertake full-time employment for any period during which they are required to be studying at the University. For more information, please consult the following:
Guidance on employment during studies
1.9
Permission to register on a second programme to be taken concurrently must be sought in advance from the school with which the student is initially registered, except where the student is on a joint programme run by more than one institution. Students will not be permitted to register on two full-time programmes at the same time.
1.10
A student will be registered as a part-time student if they meet any one of these criteria:
On a part-time programme
On an apprenticeship programme
Studying fewer than 60 credits in that academic year
Working more than 20 hours per week during periods when they are required to be at the University
Registered on a full-time programme at another institution except those on Joint Programmes where full-time registration at both institutions is a requirement of their programme
1.11
A student’s registration will be discontinued if for any reason the student has been deemed to be withdrawn as detailed in the University’s Regulations Governing Attendance and Engagement. For more information, please consult the following:
Regulations governing attendance and engagement
1.12
A student’s registration will be discontinued if a student does
not provide the University with required information as detailed below (in the Contact details section).
1.13
A student’s registration will be discontinued if they are in breach of the law in a manner that makes them ineligible to satisfy the University’s attendance requirements.
1.14
A student’s registration will be discontinued if they breach any of the registration requirements stated above. For more information about registration statuses, please consult the following:
Guidance on non-registered statuses
1.15
A student’s registration will be discontinued if they are an apprentice at the University who no longer has a supporting employer in place.
Contact details
Includes:
condition of continuation; role of the portal; role of student services; approved methods of correspondence; internal communications; link to the emergency contact protocol
2.1
It is essential that the University has accurate and up to date information about each student's address, in order to contact them in a timely manner about matters relevant to their programme of study and their membership of the University.
2.2
It is a condition of continuing as a Registered Student during an academic year that a student keeps the University informed both of their current local address (where they may be contacted during times when they are expected to be attending the University) and of their permanent home address (where they may be contacted at any time and particularly at times when they are not expected to be attending the University) using an approved method. For the purpose of these Regulations, the approved method is:
(a)
through the portal
(b)
at the Student Services Centre
(c)
in the case of undergraduate students in the School of Education and undergraduate students of Nursing, Midwifery and Medicine at the relevant School Office.
2.3
For email correspondence the University uses the   -   username@nottingham.ac.uk   -   email address to contact students. If a student does not activate or use this account, the University will not be responsible for their not receiving important information such as details about classes, assessments, fees, registration and graduation.
2.4
Students should ensure that they read all letters and email communications sent to them by the University at the addresses provided and may not use non-receipt of information as a reason for non-compliance with University requirements where they have failed to keep their contact information up to date or where they have failed to read such information.
2.5
Registered students are strongly encouraged to provide up-to-date information on a person (such as their next of kin) who may be contacted in an emergency. The University has a protocol governing when and how this information may be used.
For more information about emergency contacts, please consult the following:
Emergency contact protocol
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
27 March 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/prog-and-mod-design-and-approval/mod-design-approval.aspx
Header: Module design and approval
Intro: This page provides instructions on how to request a new module. While it is primarily intended for staff across the UK, China and Malaysia campuses, it may also be of interest to students.
Content:
Module design and approval - The University of NottinghamModule design and approval
This page provides instructions on how to request a new module. While it is primarily intended for staff across the UK, China and Malaysia campuses, it may also be of interest to students.1.0 Purpose
This page sets out the regulations about how to request a new module, which will help staff who are designing new modules as well as those who are updating existing modules.
2.0 Key principles
2.1  Conditions for a new UK-based module approval submission
In submitting a new UK-based module for approval, one of the following conditions must apply:
That the school indicates the existing module which is being withdrawn and replaced by the new module (intended to be on a module to module basis);
The module forms an integral part of a new programme
The new module is a credit bearing continuing professional development (CPD) module and does not sit in a programme
That the new module runs concurrently with an existing module and there will be no additional associated timetabling or
That the new module is a dissertation or project or individual reading module with no additional resource requirements (that is, timetabling, assessment or facilities)
That the new module has been created to protect student mobility (i.e. creating a semester length version of a year long module)
2.2 Free speech
When developing a new module, appropriate regard must be given to the importance of promoting free speech.
Please consult the following for further information about the Freedom of Speech Act:
Free Speech and Academic Freedom at the University of Nottingham
Office for Students guidance on free speech.
2.3 Academic freedom
In relation to programme and module development, approval, and delivery, it should be noted that academics would not be prohibited from developing or delivering a programme or module on the ground that it involves giving serious consideration to ‘controversial or unpopular opinions’. This is not a reason that the programme would be approved, rather it is not a reason it could be declined. For instance, there will remain business or logistical reasons to not grant approval to a programme or module.
3.0 Roles and responsibilities
Schools are responsible for completing the relevant new module templates, consulting with the relevant parties, and to get the necessary School level approvals and send the paperwork to RAA.
RAA are responsible for reviewing the document in a timely manner.
New Modules that meet the above conditions and the regulations outlined in the module specification guidance can be approved on behalf of Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) by RAA. Any new module requests that do not meet the above conditions and/or do not conform with the module specification guidelines would need QSC approval. In such circumstances, the school will need to make an exceptional case to Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) for the module to be approved, citing the significant institutional interests served by the module.
4.0 Procedural steps - How to request a new module
Schools in UNUK, UNM and UNNC intending to introduce a new module must:
complete the New Module Specification Template (provided in Section 5 below)
seek School level approval for the new module
submit the New Module Information Template to Registry and Academic Affairs (RAA),  Student Registry Office (SRO) or Academic Services Unit (ASU) (for UNUK, UNM and UNNC respectively).
Schools must consult with any other Schools that they are aware of that are likely to have a legitimate interest in the creation of the module, e.g., if the subject matter of the new module has any overlap with existing provision in another School.
5.0 Related regulations, policies and procedures
The module specification template for a new module is provided here:
New module information template
For more information about completing a new module specification template, please consult the following:
Module specification guidance
For more information about the curriculum review cycle, please consult the following:
Curriculum review of programme and module specifications
Module information in Campus Solutions is used for relevant central processes and will be published in the Online Course Catalogue.
Online course catalogue
Version control table
Version control table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Clarifications made as part of a review of this section of the quality manual.  Also reformatted to align with new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework
QSC
August 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please email:
ss-curriculumadvice@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
05 February 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/studies-away-from-university/pol-e-learning-and-distance.aspx
Header: Policy on e-learning and distance learning
Intro: This page contains the University's policy on the delivery and support of online and distance learning. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Policy on e-learning and distance learning - The University of NottinghamPolicy on e-learning and distance learning
This page contains the University's policy on the delivery and support of online and distance learning. Its content is applicable to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.These regulations apply only to Distance Learning programmes - programmes that are explicitly described as such in the relevant programme specification.
1.0 Purpose
This policy covers educational provision leading to an award or part of an award that is delivered and/or supported and/or assessed through means which generally do not require the student to attend particular classes or events at particular times and particular locations. This includes practices such as e-learning, distance learning, blended learning, flexible learning, instructor-led training and the use of web-based materials to supplement classroom-based learning.
The policy outlines the minimum requirements which are expected by the University to be met by Schools when delivering this provision. The requirements of this policy are in addition to the normal expectations on schools which are detailed throughout the Quality Manual.
2.0 Key Principles
2.1 Learning Support
Prospective students should receive a clear and realistic explanation of the expectations placed upon them for study of the programme or elements of study, and for the nature and extent of autonomous, collaborative and supported aspects of learning.
Students must have access to:
A schedule for any learner support available to them through timetabled activities, for example tutorial sessions or web-based conferences;
Clear and up-to-date information about the learning support available to them locally and remotely for their programme or elements of study;
Documents that set out their own responsibilities as learners, and the commitments of the University and school for the support of a programme or element of study.
Students must have:
From the outset of their study, an identified contact, either local or remote through e-mail, telephone, fax or post, who can give them constructive feedback on academic performance and authoritative guidance on their academic progression;
Where appropriate, regular opportunities for inter-learner discussions about the programme, both to facilitate collaborative learning and to provide a basis for facilitating their participation in the quality assurance of the programme;
Appropriate opportunities to give formal feedback on their experience of the programme.
2.2 Assessment of students
Students must have access to:
Information on the ways in which their achievements will be judged, and the relative weighting of units, modules or elements of the programme in respect of assessment overall;
Timely formative assessment on their academic performance to provide a basis for individual constructive feedback and guidance, and to illustrate the awarding institution's expectations for summative assessment.
2.3 Virtual Learning Environment delivery system
2.3.1 Delivery
Any programme or element offered for study must have had the reliability of its delivery system tested, and have contingency plans that would come into operation in the event of the failure of the designed modes of delivery;
The delivery system of the programme or element of study delivered through e-learning methods must be fit for its purpose, and have an appropriate availability and life expectancy;
The delivery of any study materials direct to students remotely through, for example, e-learning methods or correspondence, must be secure and reliable, and there must be a means of confirming its safe receipt.
2.3.2 Assessment of students
Students' work must be properly attributed to them, particularly in cases where the assessment is conducted through remote methods that might be vulnerable to interception or other interference;
Any mechanisms, such as web-based methods or correspondence, for the transfer of their work directly to assessors, must be secure and reliable, and there must be a means of proving or confirming the safe receipt of their work.
3.0 Standard Operating Procedure (SOP): Roles and Responsibilities
3.1 Delivery
Schools must ensure that students have access to:
Information that sets out the respective responsibilities of the school and University for the delivery of the programme, module, or element of study;
Module descriptors, to show the intended learning outcomes and teaching, learning and assessment methods of the module(s);
A clear schedule for the delivery of their study materials and for assessment of their work.
Schools must also ensure that students can be confident that:
Study materials, whether delivered through staff of a programme presenter or through web-based or other distribution channels, meet the expectations of the University in respect of the quality of teaching and learning-support material for a programme or element of study leading to one of its awards;
The provision is subject to Annual Monitoring and the University Periodic Review process.
For more information about the University's review processes, please consult the Programme Monitoring and Review documents linked below
3.2 Learning support
Schools must ensure that students can be confident that:
Staff who provide learning support on these programmes have appropriate skills, and receive appropriate training and development;
Learning support, whether delivered through staff of a support provider or through web-based or other distribution channels, meets the expectations of the University for the quality of learning support for a programme of study leading to one of its awards.
3.3 Virtual Learning Environment delivery system
The Learning Technologies section of University of Nottingham Libraries has responsibility for meeting the requirements below for the Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) systems which they maintain, namely Moodle. However, if schools use delivery systems which are not supported by Information Services (IS) then they would be expected to assume responsibility for ensuring that the following requirements are met.
4.0 Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures
Programme Monitoring and Review
5.0 Version Control Table
Version Control Table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with the new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework, based on content last modified on 17th October 2023
QSC
July 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
16 January 2025||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/admissions/min-age-requirements.aspx
Header: Minimum age requirements
Intro: This page provides guidance on the minimum age requirements for all applicants to taught or research-based programmes run by the University within the UK. Its content is primarily directed at prospective students and their families but may also be of interest to staff who are based at the UK campus.
Content:
Minimum age requirements - The University of NottinghamMinimum age requirements
This page provides guidance on the minimum age requirements for all applicants to taught or research-based programmes run by the University within the UK. Its content is primarily directed at prospective students and their families but may also be of interest to staff who are based at the UK campus.Applicants under 18 years of age on admission
Includes:
waivers; University remit
This requirement may be waived on behalf of Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) for applicants who will be less than 18 years of age on admission, on an individual basis, providing that their parents or guardians have given their written agreement in advance to additional safeguards and requirements.
This includes acknowledging that the University will not act in "loco parentis."
International students under 16 years of age
Includes:
immigration sponsor limitations; visa implications
The University is unable to act as an immigration sponsor for international students below 16 years of age.
Consequently we cannot accept international students below the age of 16 where they will need a student visa to enter or remain in the UK.
Applicants under 18 years of age at the start of their course
Includes:
procedures; UCAS forms; accommodation
The following outlines the University procedures for handling applications from candidates who will be under 18 years of age at the start of their course:
1.
UCAS
1
forms for applicants who are under 18 years of age at the start of their chosen course will be highlighted on the applications sent to admissions decision makers.
2.
If a School decides that it wishes to offer a place to an applicant who will be under 18 years of age on the relevant date, the admissions tutor should return the UCAS form
1
to the relevant office to process the offer. The admissions administrator should then request the necessary parental consent by forwarding a letter, information sheet and pro forma of consent to the candidate.
3.
On receipt of the signed pro forma of consent from the candidate, the Head of Admissions can act on behalf of Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) to waive the minimum age requirement. Once a decision has been taken, an offer will be sent to the candidate.
4.
In August, following confirmation, the Head of Undergraduate Admissions will create a list of under-18 candidates with unconditional firm offers to be circulated to relevant Heads of School and the Accommodation Office. The Accommodation Office will inform wardens of the under-18 students who will be joining their hall of residence.
1
Please note, this applies to UK undergraduate admissions only.
Enquiries
Make an enquiry
Admissions Office
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK
Admission queries UNUK
UNNC
Admission queries UNNC
UNM
Admissions queries UNM
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
25 June 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/student-engagement-and-representation/learning-community-fora-unnc.aspx
Header: Learning Community Fora - UNNC
Intro: This page provides information on the Learning Community Fora and about how they provide a platform for the student voice. This information is relevant to staff and students across the China campus.
Content:
Learning Community Fora - UNNC - The University of NottinghamLearning Community Fora - UNNC
This page provides information on the Learning Community Fora and about how they provide a platform for the student voice. This information is relevant to staff and students across the China campus.Purpose
The purposes of the Learning Community Forum (LCF) are to ensure that the views of students are given proper weight in the processes of course and module review, and to ensure that the concerns of students about their courses of study are represented to the academic staff throughout the academic year.
There must be at least one LCF in each school, department or division; all students (including research students) must have an opportunity to contribute to its discussions.
Essential information
Includes
: general management; agendas, minutes and action points
General
A Learning Community Forum (LCF) must meet at least three times per session, with at least one meeting each Autumn Semester.
Each school, department or division should decide on the number and composition of its LCFs, appropriate to its size, range of courses, and student mix.
Students select their own representatives who are responsible for effectively collecting feedback from their fellow students, representing their views at meetings, and disseminating feedback from the meetings. Schools, departments and divisions should facilitate this by providing a mechanism for students to email or contact in some other way their fellow students.
Please note that training and development activities for student representatives are managed by the Students’ Union.
The relevant representatives of the teaching staff must attend every meeting and all course representatives should receive an invitation; Senior Tutors should be members of LCFs. Where appropriate, consideration should be given to inviting relevant representatives from Information Services (IS), Student Services and the Learning Technologies section of University of Nottingham Libraries.
The school, department or division should display the names and contact details of the representatives on the LCF, minutes of LCF meetings, external examiner reports and school responses to those reports on an appropriate forum that is clear and readily available to students (such as Moodle).
Agendas, minutes and action points
There should be a simple mechanism for both staff and students to have items placed on the agenda for discussion.
All meetings must be minuted, clearly indicating agreed action points and who is responsible for carrying them out.
Each agenda must include a report on any previously agreed action points.
Students are encouraged to undertake such duties as preparing agendas, chairing meetings, and minuting them.
LCF minutes must be taken into consideration in the school's annual monitoring processes.
It is not expected that every action requested by student representatives will be implemented, but it is expected that they should be given proper consideration and the grounds for non-implementation should be explained.
Online community
Includes
: Learning Community Forum - Moodle
The online Learning Community Forum (hosted on Moodle) is here to support the collaboration of staff and students in discussing teaching and learning matters. Any issues raised in this area can then be fed into the regular Learning Community Fora (LCF) meetings held in each school.
To access the Moodle area, please use the following (entering your University username and password when prompted):
Learning Community Forum (LCF) - Moodle
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
01 August 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-integrated-prog-phd.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Integrated Programme leading to the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Integrated Programme, leading to the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Integrated Programme leading to the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Integrated Programme leading to the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Integrated Programme, leading to the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
The regulations for the Integrated Programme leading to the degree of PhD are those which govern the PhD except where the following modify or supplement them.
1. Registration
This Integrated Programme leading to the Degree of PhD will normally commence in September of each year, although with the approval of the supervisor a student may commence their programme of study at any time of the year.
All candidates will register for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD).
2. Course of study
(i)
A candidate for the Integrated Programme leading to the Degree of PhD must have pursued in this University a full-time course of directed study/research approved by the University for a period which will not normally exceed 4 years and will not be less than 3 years.
(ii)
The Integrated Programme leading to the Degree of PhD will involve 120 credits of assessed taught modules and the equivalent of 540 credits of research work.The taught modules where possible, should be completed within 18 months of initial registration.
3. Progression
Progression from year 1 to 2, 2 to 3, and 3 to 4 will be as for all PhD students and will culminate in the submission of a progress report at the end of each year of study to the Head of School.
Performance in any assessed modules will be considered as part of a student's annual review.
4. Submission of Thesis
Includes:
when taught modules have not been completed
Candidates can submit the thesis for examination after the end of year 3 subject to approval by the supervisor and satisfactory completion of the required coursework.
Where a candidate has completed their thesis but not completed the taught modules they will not be examined on the thesis until the taught modules have been satisfactorily completed to the satisfaction of the Head of School and supervisor.
Documentation
Includes:
Guidance on the Integrated PhD document; Frequently Asked Questions document
Integrated PhD guidance for Schools
Integrated PhD FAQs
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-internationalphd-phd.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the International PhD leading to the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the International PhD, leading to the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the International PhD leading to the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the International PhD leading to the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the International PhD, leading to the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
The regulations for the International PhD are the same as those which govern the PhD except where the following modify or supplement them.
1. Admission requirements
A candidate for the International PhD must (a) be a graduate of this or any other approved university holding a bachelor’s degree with first or upper second class honours (or equivalent); and a masters degree (or equivalent) in an appropriate subject.
2. Course of study
Includes:
appointment of supervisors; minimum time spent at each institution
A candidate for the International PhD must have pursued in this University and in the partner institution a full-time or part-time course of study. Completion of the International PhD requires a minimum of 2 years of full-time supervised study and a maximum of 4 years of full-time supervised study (normally 3 years), or a minimum of 4 years of part-time supervised study (normally 6 years, 8 years maximum).
Supervisors will be appointed at Nottingham and at the partner institution.
Candidates are required to spend a minimum of twelve months at each institution throughout the period of registered study, and the pattern of study will be agreed at the commencement of registered study.
3. Progression
Progression from years 1 to 2, and 2 to 3 will be as for all PhD students at the University of Nottingham and will culminate in the submission of a progress report at the end of each year of study to the School.
Students will also be required to comply with any progression requirements at the partner institution.
4. Submission and examination of thesis
Includes:
submission of copies to each institution; appointment of examiners; compliance
Candidates are required to submit an identical copy of their thesis to each institution, taking into account local regulations on formatting of the thesis.
The University of Nottingham shall appoint examiners in accordance with the policy as set out in the Quality Manual. A viva voce examination will take place, which will be conducted in English, though with the option for part of the viva to be conducted in another language if appropriate.
Candidates may also be required to comply with separate examination procedures at the partner institution.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-regs-doceuro.aspx
Header: Regulations for the Degree of European Doctorate (DocEuro)
Intro: This page contains the regulations for the Degree of European Doctorate (DocEuro), including course of study and assessment information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Regulations for the Degree of European Doctorate (DocEuro) - The University of NottinghamRegulations for the Degree of European Doctorate (DocEuro)
This page contains the regulations for the Degree of European Doctorate (DocEuro), including course of study and assessment information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
The regulations for the European Doctorate are the same as those which govern the PhD except where the following modify or supplement them.
The criteria with which candidates must comply are those set out by the Confederation of European Union Rectors’ Conferences.
1 Course of study
Includes:
frameworks
In addition to complying with the periods of registration as set out in the University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework (UNQF), a candidate for the European Doctorate must spend at least one Academic Semester (or equivalent for a part-time student) conducting research in another European country during their period of study.
For more information about the UNQF, please consult the following:
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
2 Assessment
Includes:
submission of thesis; viva voce examination
Candidates for the degree of European Doctorate shall be required after the conclusion of their period of directed study to submit a thesis for examination in accordance with the University’s requirements, and to attend for a viva voce examination. In addition:
(a)
Part of the viva voce examination must be conducted in a European language other than English, normally an official language of a European country. The examiners conducting the viva voce examination must include at least one from a higher education institution in a European country other than the UK.
(b)
The examiners must include at least two from universities in two separate European countries other than the UK.
For more information about the viva voce examination, please consult the following:
Viva voce examinations
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-regs-doc-medicine.aspx
Header: Regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Medicine
Intro: This page contains the regulations surrounding the Degree of Doctor of Medicine, including admission requirements, supervision and transfer (to a PhD) information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Medicine - The University of NottinghamRegulations for the Degree of Doctor of Medicine
This page contains the regulations surrounding the Degree of Doctor of Medicine, including admission requirements, supervision and transfer (to a PhD) information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
The regulations for the DM are those which govern the PhD with the following exceptions.
For the DM, Regulation 1 (Admission) governing the degree of PhD is replaced by the following.
1. Admissions requirements
Includes:
requirements; relationship to other regulations
A candidate for the Degree of DM must be:
(a)
A graduate in medicine (BMBS) of the University of Nottingham; or
(b)
A graduate in medicine of another recognised university whose qualifications confer eligibility for registration with the General Medical Council.
A student who is not a graduate of the University of Nottingham will be expected to undertake most of the research in the University or one of its associated hospitals or general practices.
The following regulations (as outlined in the subsequent sections) for the DM are additional to those governing the PhD.
2. Supervisors and supervision
Includes:
where research topic extends beyond staff expertise; role of principal supervisor
In cases where the student's research topic extends beyond the expertise of academic staff, at least two supervisors shall be appointed.
The principal supervisor will be a member of the academic staff of the University of Nottingham and the second supervisor will be in an outside organisation such as the NHS.
The role of the principal supervisor will be to ensure, on behalf of the Head of School, that appropriate and continuous supervision is arranged during the student's period of registered study.
3. Study outside the Nottingham area
Includes:
criteria; role of principal supervisor
The research study of a candidate (either part-time or full-time) who is a graduate in medicine (BMBS) of the University of Nottingham may in an appropriate case take place outside the Nottingham area. Candidates registered under this regulation shall be allocated at least two supervisors.
The principal supervisor will be a member of the academic staff of the University of Nottingham, and the second supervisor will be based in the outside organisation. Candidates studying under this Regulation shall be subject to the requirements of Regulation 2 (Supervisors and Supervision) and to the minimum periods of study laid down elsewhere in these Regulations. However they need not attend at the University for a prescribed number of personal consultations with the principal supervisor if the Head of School concerned is satisfied that adequate supervision can be arranged by other means, for example, in an outside organisation or electronically.
4. Transfer to PhD
Includes:
period of research; application for permission
A candidate shall not be permitted to count the same period of research for both the degree of PhD and the degree of DM.
However, a candidate for a DM degree may, after a period of not less than nine months study for the DM and before notification of intention to submit a thesis has been given, with the approval of the Supervisor and the Head of School concerned submit an application to the University for permission to be registered as a candidate for the degree of PhD instead of that of DM.
5. DM by published work
Includes:
normal pathway for degree of doctor of medicine; exceptional circumstances
Registration as a research student and submission of a thesis as detailed in these regulations is the normal pathway for the award of the degree of Doctor of Medicine (DM).
In exceptional circumstances it may be possible to submit published work for consideration for the award of a DM degree. This route is appropriate only for individuals of sufficient experience and seniority to enable them to submit a substantial volume of work already published in high quality medical/scientific journals. Such published papers submitted in lieu of a thesis must be related and accompanied by a statement preferably in the form of an essay describing the relationship between the various studies and placing the whole work critically into perspective with the general state of knowledge in the field of investigation to which the candidate's researchers are related. The statement should also clearly indicate the exact role of the applicant in the research on which the submission is based. Anyone considering such a submission should first consult with a member of Quality and Standards Committee (QSC).
For more information about QSC, please consult the following:
Quality and Standards Committee
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-regs-doc-agrifood.aspx
Header: Regulations for the Doctor of Agrifood
Intro: This page contains the regulations for the Doctor of Agrifood, including admission requirements, progression and examination information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Regulations for the Doctor of Agrifood - The University of NottinghamRegulations for the Doctor of Agrifood
This page contains the regulations for the Doctor of Agrifood, including admission requirements, progression and examination information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
The regulations for the DAgrifood are those which govern the PhD except where the following modify or supplement them.
Admission requirements
Includes:
minimum relevant experience
1.
A candidate for the Doctor of Agrifood must:
(a)
be a graduate of this or any other approved university holding either a bachelor's degree with first or upper second class honours (or equivalent) in agriculture, food or other relevant biological sciences area; or
(b)
such other qualifications as may be deemed by the University to be the equivalent of any qualifications referred to in (a) above.
Candidates will normally be expected to have a minimum of one years' relevant post-graduate experience in the Agrifood industry.
Course of study
2.
A candidate for the degree of DAgrifood must have pursued at this University a full or part-time course of study comprising a taught component and a portfolio of integrated research projects with a common theme carried out in industry and supervised by academic staff of this University. Completion of the DAgrifood programme requires a minimum of two and a maximum of four years of full-time supervised study, and a minimum of four and a maximum of eight years of part-time supervised study.
Taught component
Includes:
requirements; compliance
3.
The taught component requires the successful completion of 120 credits of modules normally during the first 3 semesters (18 months) of the course or first 6 semesters (3 years) of the course for part-time candidates. The modules to be taken are those available from the Agrifood Advanced Training Partnership (AATP) or Agrifood Training Partnership (AFTP), with a minimum of 40 credits required to be taken at the University of Nottingham, including the compulsory 10 credit statistics module.
4.
The University's Regulations for Taught Master's Degrees, Postgraduate Diploma and Postgraduate Certificate courses shall apply with regard to satisfactory progression on the taught element of the degree.
Progression
Includes:
before starting the research project; policies with regard to supervision and annual review
5.
Before starting the Research project, each DAgrifood candidate will be allocated at least one academic supervisor and one industrial supervisor. They will be expected to complete an assessed critical literature review of current research of approximately 10,000 words and a research plan, of approximately 6,000 words, that will include a clear statement of the problem to be investigated and the rationale behind the design of the study, as well as an analysis of resource implications. The literature review and research plan will be developed with guidance from the supervisors. Progression to the Research project is dependent upon achieving a pass mark (>50%) for this assessment.
6.
The University's policies with regard to supervision and annual review of progress shall apply, together with any further requirements specified by the centre/programme.
Submission of thesis and examination
7.
The candidate shall submit a thesis for examination in accordance with the requirements of the centre/programme. The thesis may be in the form of:
(i)
the traditional PhD thesis or
(ii)
published works (a format suitable for submission for publication in a peer reviewed journal) with appropriate additional integration and explanation. For more information, please consult the following:
Regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) and Master of Philosophy (MPhil)
8.
Candidates shall be examined by one Internal Examiner, one External academic Examiner and normally one External Examiner who is an industrialist, although the latter may be dependent upon any confidentiality/ proprietary information issues.
Outcomes of examination
Includes:
conferral of degree; candidates who do not undertake or fail research thesis but complete part of whole of taught programme
9.
The degree of DAgrifood will be conferred on candidates who have successfully completed the taught component of the programme (including the assessed critical literature review and research plan) and have satisfied the Examiners as to the standard of the Research and thesis.
10.
Candidates who either do not undertake or fail the research thesis but successfully complete part or the whole of the taught programme, may be considered for the following awards: Postgraduate Certificate (60 credits), Postgraduate Diploma (120 credits) or MSc (180 credits) depending on the specifications of the individual programme.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-edd-school-improvement-cpd-teachered-litored-leadership.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Education (EdD) in School Improvement and Continuing Professional Development or Teacher Education or Literacy or Educational Leadership
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Education (EdD) in School Improvement and Continuing Professional Development or Teacher Education or Literacy of Educational Leadership. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Education (EdD) in School Improvement and Continuing Professional Development or Teacher Education or Literacy or Educational Leadership - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Education (EdD) in School Improvement and Continuing Professional Development or Teacher Education or Literacy or Educational Leadership
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Education (EdD) in School Improvement and Continuing Professional Development or Teacher Education or Literacy of Educational Leadership. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Admissions requirements
1.
A candidate for the degree must:
(a)
Be a graduate of this or any other approved university normally holding a Bachelor's degree (normally first or second class Honours or equivalent) and normally holding an appropriate Masters degree from this or any other approved university, or
(b)
Hold such other qualifications as may, on the recommendation of the School, be deemed by Senate to be equivalent to the qualifications referred to in (a).
Candidates will normally be expected to have a minimum of two years' relevant professional experience.
Course of study
2.
A candidate for the degree of EdD must have pursued in this University a full or part-time course of study comprising a taught component and a major research project. Completion of the EdD programme requires a minimum of two years' full-time supervised study or four years' part-time supervised study.
Taught component
Includes:
candidates who fail to satisfy examiners; candidates who successfully complete taught programme but not the thesis
3
The taught component requires the completion of 120 credits as directed by the School of Education, normally during the first year of the course for full-time students or the first two years of the course for part-time students.
4
The assessment for each module shall consist of a formal assignment of 5,000- 6,000 words or equivalent. Work is assessed as either pass or fail using established School criteria for work at this level. Candidates are required to achieve a pass mark in the assessment for each module. There is no compensation offered for failed work.
5
Candidates who fail to satisfy the Examiners in any of the above courses may be re-examined on such terms as decided by the Senate, on the recommendations of the School Exams Board. Candidates may normally be reexamined on one occasion only.
6
Candidates who complete successfully the taught programme but do not successfully complete the Thesis may be awarded a Postgraduate Diploma in School Improvement and Continuing Professional Development or a Postgraduate Diploma in Teacher Education or a Postgraduate Diploma in Literacy or a Postgraduate Diploma in Educational Leadership.
Progression
7
Admission to the research element of the course is normally dependent upon successful completion of the taught component.
Thesis
8
Candidates are required to submit a thesis of 40,000-60,000 words on an approved topic.The thesis should offer an original application of knowledge in the area of relevance to the award title and should demonstrate the candidate's ability to integrate rigorous academic analysis with professional relevance and application.The thesis should be the result of the work done mainly while the candidate is registered for the degree. A certificate to this effect, countersigned by the candidate's supervisor, shall be submitted by the candidate when presenting the thesis.The submission should also be accompanied by evidence that the taught programme has been satisfactorily completed.
Award of EdD
9
The degree of EdD in School Improvement and Continuing Professional Development or the EdD in Teacher Education or the EdD in Literacy or the EdD in Educational Leadership will be conferred on candidates who have completed successfully the taught programme and submitted a thesis in a form and of a standard outlined above. Candidates are required to present themselves for viva voce examination to be conducted by one internal (academic) Examiner who is not one of the candidate's supervisors and one external (academic) Examiner.
Failure
Includes:
candidate proceeding under this regulation
10
A candidate for the degree of EdD whose thesis fails to satisfy the Examiners may, by permission of Senate on the recommendation of the Examiners be allowed to:
(a)
make minor corrections to the thesis to the satisfaction of the internal (academic) Examiner; or
(b)
re-present the same thesis and attend a second viva voce examination; or
(c)
re-present the thesis in a revised form and attend a second viva voce examination. or
(d)
re-present the thesis without attending a second viva voce examination.
A candidate proceeding under this regulation shall normally be required to pursue a further course of directed study for a specified period which will not normally exceed one calendar year. Candidates who re-present their thesis and again fail to satisfy the examiners may be awarded a Master of Philosophy as set out in (6) above.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-edd-lifelong-learning.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Education (EdD) (Lifelong Learning)
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Education (EdD) (Lifelong Learning). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Education (EdD) (Lifelong Learning) - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Education (EdD) (Lifelong Learning)
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Education (EdD) (Lifelong Learning). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Admissions requirements
1.
A candidate for the Doctor of Education (Lifelong Education) must
(a)
Be a graduate of an approved university holding a Bachelor's degree (normally first or second class Honours or equivalent) and normally holding a MA or MEd from an approved university, or
(b)
Hold such qualifications as may be deemed by the University to be equivalent to those referred to in (a).
2.
Candidates will normally be expected to have a minimum of two years' professional experience within the field of post-compulsory education.
3.
All candidates will be interviewed.
Course of study
4.
A candidate for the degree of Doctor of Education (Lifelong Education) must have pursued in this University a full- or part-time course of study comprising taught component and a major research project. Completion of the Doctor of Education (Lifelong Education) programme requires a minimum of two years' full-time or four years' part-time supervised study.
Taught component
5.
The taught component requires the completion of 120 credits from taught modules, completed during the first year (full-time) or first two years (part-time) of the course. The taught component requires satisfactory completion of four core modules detailed in the course submission document.
Thesis component
6.
The thesis component requires the candidate to undertake original research in an approved topic in the field of lifelong or post-compulsory education and complete a 40 - 50,000 word thesis. The thesis must
(a)
Offer an original application of knowledge in the area of lifelong education, and
(b)
Demonstrate the candidate's ability to integrate academic analysis with practical relevance and application.
7.
The thesis should be the result of work done mainly while the candidate is registered for the degree. A certificate to this effect, countersigned by the candidate's supervisor, shall be submitted by the candidate when presenting the thesis. The submission should also be accompanied by evidence that the taught component of the award has been satisfactorily completed.
Assessment and progress
Includes:
assessment of taught component; progress from taught to thesis component; assessment of thesis
Assessment of the Taught Component
8.
The pass mark for all modules is 50%.
9.
Candidates who fail to satisfy the Examiners in any of the core modules may be reassessed on such terms as the University may decide. Under normal circumstances, only one reassessment opportunity will be afforded.
Progress from taught to thesis component
10.
Candidates who have failed to satisfy the Examiners in any of the core modules may not progress to the thesis stage of the award.
Assessment of the Thesis
11.
Candidates are required to submit a thesis of 40,000 - 50,000 words on a topic approved by the appointed supervisor and Head of School.
12.
Candidates are required to present themselves for a viva voce examination to be conducted by one internal (academic) Examiner who is not one of the candidate's supervisors and one external (academic) examiner, both of whom would normally be senior educators in the field of lifelong education.
Award of the Degree of Education in Lifelong Education
Includes:
exceptional circumstances; candidates who fail to satisfy examiners
13.
A candidate whose thesis has satisfied the Examiners will be awarded the degree of Doctor of Education (Lifelong Education).
14.
A candidate for the degree of Doctor of Education (Lifelong Education) whose thesis fails to satisfy the Examiners may, by permission of Senate on the recommendation of the Examiners and the University, be allowed to
(i)
Make minor corrections to the thesis to the satisfaction of the internal (academic) Examiner, or
(ii)
Re-present the same thesis and attend a second viva voce examination, or
(iii)
Re-present the thesis in a revised form and attend a second viva voce examination, or
(iv)
Re-present the thesis without attending a second viva voce examination
A candidate proceeding under this Regulation shall normally be required to pursue a further course of directed study for a specified period that will not normally exceed one calendar year.
15.
Candidates proceeding under Regulation 14 who re-present their thesis and again fail to satisfy the examiners may be awarded the degree of Master of Philosophy without further periods of study.
16.
In exceptional circumstances, candidates proceeding under Regulation 14 who re-present their thesis and again fail to satisfy the examiners may be granted, by the approval of the School Staff Committee on the recommendation of the examiners, the opportunity to undertake one further period of directed study of no more than one semester and re-present the thesis for the award of Master of Philosophy.
17.
Candidates who fail to satisfy the examiners in the thesis component will be awarded the Diploma in Lifelong Education.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-dappedpsy-from-september-2020.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Educational Psychology (DAppEdPsy) from September 2020
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Educational Psychology (DAppEdPsy) from September 2020. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Educational Psychology (DAppEdPsy) from September 2020 - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Educational Psychology (DAppEdPsy) from September 2020
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Educational Psychology (DAppEdPsy) from September 2020. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
The regulations for the DappEdPsy are those which govern the PhD except where the following modify or supplement them.
These regulations are applicable to students starting programmes in or after September 2020. For students commencing their programmes before this date, the Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Educational Psychology (Professional Training) before September 2020 will apply. For more information, please consult the following:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Educational Psychology (Professional Training) (DAppEdPsy) before September 2020
Admission requirements
A candidate for the Doctor of Applied Educational Psychology must:
a)
Be a graduate of an approved university holding a Bachelors degree in Psychology or an equivalent subject recognised by the British Psychological Society as conferring Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership. This will normally be a first or upper second class honours but candidates with a lower second-class honours degree or other equivalent qualification may be considered if they have evidence of academic ability in psychology at postgraduate level.
b)
Have the personal and intellectual resources to pursue a challenging and demanding research-oriented programme, including the:
Capacity to be critical and analytical
Ability to work in a self-motivated, independent way and to set personal priorities
Capacity to carry out sensitively practical fieldwork tasks
Strong commitment to the positive contribution of psychology and education
c)
Have previous supervised practical experience relevant to training as an educational psychologist that demonstrates:
Interpersonal skills at a level appropriate for dealing with people in distress
The ability to work collaboratively with colleagues
Long-standing interest in educational psychology
d)
complete Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) checks for acceptability for working with children and young people.
Course of study
2.
A candidate for the Degree of Doctor in Applied Educational Psychology must have pursued in this University a full-time course of study comprising taught, professional practice and research components. The minimum period for registration for this programme will be three years full time supervised study. Candidates will also be entitled to a thesis pending period of one year.
3.
The course has a modular structure and credits will be awarded on the basis of successful completion of each module. The 540 credits will comprise 7 postgraduate taught modules (140 credits), 3 placement modules (240 credits), and research components (200 credits) contributing to a research portfolio (60 credits), a research project (80 credits) and a research dissertation (80 credits).
Taught component
4.
All taught modules will be at NUQF level 5 (QAA Level 8). The taught component of the course will continue throughout the three years of the course. The minimum pass mark for all taught modules will be 50%. All taught modules are compulsory and non-compensatable. The modules to be taken will be as notified to students in the School's programme handbook.
The assessment will enable candidates to demonstrate a systematic acquisition and understanding of a substantial body of knowledge, which is at the forefront of educational psychology professional practice. The assessments for the research methods training will be by research portfolio. The maximum number of modules which may be reassessed is two.
5.
The University's Regulations for Taught Master's Degrees, Postgraduate Diploma and Postgraduate Certificate courses shall apply with regard to satisfactory progression on the taught element of the degree.
Submission of research portfolio, project and dissertation
6.
The assessment will comprise a portfolio of research activity completed as part of the research methods, taught modules and placement modules, a research project and a thesis. Students will complete three assignments as part of the portfolio of research.
Students will complete three professional placement modules during which they will be required to produce a portfolio of fieldwork activities for each placement. The assessment of this professional practice component will comprise professional practice portfolio and placement evaluation.
7.
The research development project (12,000 words) will extend over year 2 and comprise developing a research and ethics proposal and systematic literature review presented at the end of that year. Students research topics will be informed by the priorities of their placement provider, student personal and professional interest, and national developments in educational psychology. The project will contain the literature review for the Year 3 research thesis.
8.
The research thesis (35,000 words) will extend over years two and three and be presented toward the end of the third year. The research thesis shall be of a standard to indicate the creation and interpretation of new knowledge through original research, which will extend the forefront of the discipline. The work reported will be of a quality to satisfy peer review and merit publication in a scientific journal. Normally candidates will submit their thesis at the end of the spring term in year 3. The viva will be carried out in the summer term of year 3. In exceptional circumstances candidates may submit the research thesis up to one year after the period of supervised study.
Outcomes of examination
9.
The degree of Doctor of Applied Educational Psychology (DAppEdPsy) will be conferred on candidates who have completed and reached a satisfactory standard in all of the taught modules, professional practice placement modules and research components of the programme, as defined above.
10.
Candidates who either do not undertake or fail components but successfully complete part of the programme may be considered for the following awards: Postgraduate Certificate in Applied Educational Psychology (60 credits), Postgraduate Diploma in Applied Educational Psychology (120 credits) and Masters in Applied Educational Psychology (240 Credits) depending on the number of credits accrued and the point/year of exit. These exit qualifications will not confer eligibility on a student to register with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC), the profession’s statutory regulator, as a Practitioner Educational Psychologist.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-professional-training-dappedpsy-before-september-2020.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Educational Psychology (Professional Training) (DAppEdPsy) before September 2020
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Educational Psychology (Professional Training) (DAppEdPsy) before September 2020. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Educational Psychology (Professional Training) (DAppEdPsy) before September 2020 - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Educational Psychology (Professional Training) (DAppEdPsy) before September 2020
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Applied Educational Psychology (Professional Training) (DAppEdPsy) before September 2020. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
The regulations for the DappEdPsy are those which govern the PhD except where the following modify or supplement them.
These regulations are applicable to students starting programmes in or after September 2018.
Admission requirements
A candidate for the Doctor of Applied Educational Psychology (Professional Training) must:
a)
Be a graduate of an approved university holding a Bachelors degree in Psychology or an equivalent subject recognised by the British Psychological Society as conferring Graduate Basis for Registration. This will normally be a first or upper second class honours but candidates with a lower second-class honours degree or other equivalent qualification may be considered if they have evidence of academic ability in psychology at postgraduate level.
b)
Have the personal and intellectual resources to pursue a challenging and demanding research oriented programme, including the:
Capacity to be critical and analytical
Ability to work in a self-motivated, independent way and to set personal priorities
Capacity to carry out sensitively practical fieldwork tasks
Strong commitment to the positive contribution of psychology and education
c)
Have previous supervised practical experience relevant to training as an educational psychologist that demonstrates:
Interpersonal skills at a level appropriate for dealing with people in distress
The ability to work collaboratively with colleagues
Long-standing interest in educational psychology
d)
Complete Criminal Records Bureau checks for acceptability for working with children and young people.
Course of study
2.
A candidate for the Degree of Doctor in Applied Educational Psychology (Professional Training) must have pursued in this University a full-time course of study comprising a taught component and two major research projects. The minimum period for registration for this programme will be three years full time supervised study. Candidates will also be entitled to a thesis pending period of one year.
3.
The course has a modular structure and credits will be awarded on the basis of successful completion of each module. The 540 credits will comprise 14 taught modules (140 credits), 3 placement modules (250 credits), which include research components contributing to a research portfolio, a research project (50 credits) and a research dissertation (100 credits).
Taught component
4.
All taught modules will be at level 5 and the taught component of the course will continue throughout the three years of the course. The minimum pass mark for all taught modules will be 50%. All taught modules will be compulsory. The modules to be taken will be as notified to students in the School's programme handbook.
The assessment will enable candidates to demonstrate a systematic acquisition and understanding of a substantial body of knowledge which is at the forefront of educational psychology professional practice. The assessments for the research methods training will comprise part of the research portfolio and are not assessed as part of the taught component of the course.
The number of modules which can be reassessed may be limited by the requirements of the British Psychological Society. The maximum number of placement modules which may be reassessed is two.
5.
The University's Regulations for Taught Master's Degrees, Postgraduate Diploma and Postgraduate Certificate courses shall apply with regard to satisfactory progression on the taught element of the degree.
Submission of research portfolio, project and dissertation
6.
The final assessment will comprise a portfolio of research completed on research methods taught modules and placement modules, a research project and a dissertation. Students will complete five assignments during the fieldwork placements for inclusion in the portfolio of research.
Students will complete 3 placement modules during which they will be required to produce a portfolio of fieldwork activities for each placement in addition to the portfolio of research.
7.
The research project (15,000 words) will extend over year 2 and be presented at the end of that year. Students will choose from a menu of research topics recommended by a national steering committee of local authority employers and university professional trainers and have the opportunity to contribute towards the collation of large nationally-gathered data sets. This project will contain the literature review for the year 3 research dissertation.
8.
The research dissertation (35,000 - 40,000 words) will extend over years two and three and be presented in the second half of the third year. The research dissertation shall be of a standard to indicate the creation and interpretation of new knowledge through original research, which will extend the forefront of the discipline. The work reported will be of a quality to satisfy peer review and merit publication in a scientific journal. Normally candidates will submit their thesis by mid semester in year 3. The viva will be carried out in the summer period of year 3. In exceptional circumstances candidates may submit the dissertation and research portfolio up to one calendar year after the period of supervised study.
Outcomes of examination
9.
The degree of Doctor of Applied Educational Psychology (DAppEdPsy) will be conferred on candidates who have completed and reached a satisfactory standard in the taught modules, fieldwork placements, research portfolio, project and dissertation, as defined above.
10.
Candidates who either do not undertake or fail the research component but successfully complete part or the whole of the taught programme may be considered for the following awards: Postgraduate Certificate in Applied Educational Psychology (60 credits), or Postgraduate Diploma in Applied Educational Psychology (120 credits).
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-dhsci.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Health Science (DHSci)
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Health Science (DHSci). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Health Science (DHSci) - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Health Science (DHSci)
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Health Science (DHSci). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
The regulations for the DHSci are those which govern the PhD except where the following modify or supplement them.
Admission requirements
1.
A candidate for the Doctor of Health Science must:
(a)
be a graduate of this or any other approved university holding either a bachelor's degree with first or upper second class honours (or equivalent);
(b)
or such other qualifications as may be deemed by the University to be the equivalent of any qualifications referred to in (a) above.
Candidates will normally be expected to have a minimum of two years' relevant post-registration practical experience.
Course of study
2.
A candidate for the degree of DHSci must have pursued at this University a full-time or part-time course of study comprising a taught component and a thesis. Completion of the DHSci programme requires a minimum of 2 years of full-time supervised study and a maximum of 4 years of full-time supervised study, or a minimum of 4 years of part-time supervised study (8 years maximum).
Taught component
3.
The taught component requires the successful completion of 120 credits of modules normally during the first 3 semesters (18 months) of the course and first 6 semesters (3 years) of the course for part-time candidates. 100 credits are from 5 taught modules and 20 credits from generic research training. The modules to be taken are notified to students in the School's programme handbook.
4.
The University's Regulations for Taught Master's Degrees, Postgraduate Diploma and Postgraduate Certificate courses shall apply with regard to satisfactory progression on the taught element of the degree. For more information, please consult the following:
Postgraduate Taught study regulations
Submission of thesis and examination
5.
The candidate shall submit a thesis of a minimum of 50,000 words and a maximum of 60,000 words for examination.
Outcomes of examination
Includes:
candidates who do not undertake or fail research portfolio
6.
The degree of DHSci will be conferred on candidates who have successfully completed the taught component of the programme and have satisfied the Examiners as to the standard of the thesis.
7.
Candidates who either do not undertake or fail the research portfolio but successfully complete part or the whole of the taught programme may be considered for the following awards: Postgraduate Certificate in Health Science (60 credits) or Postgraduate Diploma in Health Science (120 credits). The qualification of Master of Science in Health Science may be awarded to a candidate who registers for the DHSci, but who does not complete the course, provided that the candidate has passed 180 credits of modules and satisfies the University's Regulations for Taught Master's Degrees as above in regulation 4 (of the Taught component section).
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-dvetmed-dvetsurg.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVetMed) and Doctor of Veterinary Surgery (DVetSurg)
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for  the Degree of Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVetMed) and Doctor of Veterinary Surgery (DVetSurg). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVetMed) and Doctor of Veterinary Surgery (DVetSurg) - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVetMed) and Doctor of Veterinary Surgery (DVetSurg)
This page contains the supplementary regulations for  the Degree of Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVetMed) and Doctor of Veterinary Surgery (DVetSurg). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
The regulations for the DVetMed/ DVetSurg are the same as those which govern the PhD except where the following modify or supplement them.
Admission requirements
1.
A candidate for the Doctor of Veterinary Medicine or Doctor of Veterinary Surgery must:
(a)
be a graduate of this or any other approved university holding a Bachelor's degree (normally first or second class Honours or equivalent);
(b)
or such other qualifications as may be deemed by the University to be the equivalent of any qualifications referred to in (a) above; and
(c)
be a Member or Fellow of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons with a legal ability to practise veterinary medicine in the UK;
or
(d)
hold such other qualifications as may, on the recommendation of the School, be deemed by the University to be equivalent to the qualifications referred to in (c).
Course of study
2.
A candidate for the degree of DVetMed or DVetSurg must have pursued at this University a full-time course of study comprising a taught component and submission of a portfolio including a thesis of between 50,000 and 60,000 words, a critical review of literature of between 8,000- 10,000 words and a research plan of between 6,000- 8,000 words. Completion of the DVetMed or DVetSurg programme requires a minimum of three years of full-time supervised study and a minimum of six years of part-time supervised study.
Taught component
Includes:
D24RPL - Research plan; D24RPO - Research portfolio; D24LIT - Critical appraisal of literature
3.
Students are expected to complete a minimum of 120 taught credit modules taken at level 4. Module credits will be awarded in the following areas:
D24RPL - Research plan (30 credits)
Candidates will be given specific training by their supervisor(s) and will be required to produce a systematic research plan involving appropriate project planning, evaluation criteria and assessment methods. The project plan will be between 6,000-8,000 words and is to be submitted within the first six months of the programme.
D24RPO - Research portfolio (60 credits)
Candidates should submit a research portfolio, comprising a minimum of 20 assets, evidencing research methods training and attending a viva voce examination, satisfying examiners regarding knowledge and research methods as appropriate to the research project.
D24LIT - Critical appraisal of literature (30 credits)
Candidates will be given specific training by their supervisor(s) and will be required to produce a critical review of literature in an aspect of clinical research related to their research area. The critical review will be between 8,000-10,000 words.
The minimum pass mark for the taught module component will be 50%.
Reassessment
4.
The University's Regulations for Taught Master's Degrees, Postgraduate Diploma and Postgraduate Certificate courses shall apply with regard to satisfactory progression on the taught element of the degree. Performance in any assessed modules will be considered as part of a student's annual review.
Submission of thesis
5.
The candidate shall submit a thesis of between 50,000 and 60,000 words for examination within one year of completion of the period of supervised study for full-time candidates, and two calendar years for part-time candidates.
Outcomes of examination
Includes:
candidates who do not undertake or fail research thesis/portfolio
6.
The degree of DVetMed or DVetSurg will be conferred on candidates who have successfully completed the taught component of the programme (including the assessed critical appraisal and research plan) and have satisfied the Examiners as to the standard of the portfolio and thesis.
7.
Candidates who either do not undertake or fail the research thesis/portfolio but successfully complete part or the whole of the taught programme may be considered for the following awards: Postgraduate Certificate in Veterinary Medicine and Surgery (60 credits), Postgraduate Diploma in Veterinary Medicine (120 credits), or degree of Master of Philosophy.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-engd.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Engineering (EngD)
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Engineering (EngD). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Engineering (EngD) - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Engineering (EngD)
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Engineering (EngD). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
The regulations for the EngD are those which govern the PhD except where the following modify or supplement them.
Admission requirements
1.
A candidate for the Doctor of Engineering must be a graduate of this or any other approved university holding a Bachelor's degree (normally first or second class Honours or equivalent) in an engineering or related subject.
2.
In keeping with the wording used by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council a candidate who is accepted onto the EngD programme shall be designated by this University as a Research Engineer.
Course of study
3.
A candidate for the degree of EngD must have pursued at this University a full or part-time course of study comprising a taught component and a portfolio of integrated research projects with a common theme carried out in industry and supervised by academic staff of this University. Completion of the EngD programme requires a minimum of two and a maximum of four years of full-time supervised study, and a minimum of four and a maximum of eight years of part-time supervised study.
Taught component
4.
The taught component will be taken at this University and at any other Universities which are members of the relevant research council or doctoral training centre/programme. The taught component requires the successful completion of up to 180 credits of modules as specified in the Centre's regulations, normally during the first two years of the course.
5.
The University's Regulations for Taught Master's Degrees, Postgraduate Diploma and Postgraduate Certificate courses shall apply with regard to satisfactory progression on the taught element of the degree. For more information, please consult the following:
Postgraduate Taught study regulations
Progression
6.
Each Research Engineer will have at least two academic supervisors and one industrial supervisor.
7.
The University's policies with regard to supervision and annual review of progress shall apply, together with any further requirements specified by the centre/programme.
Thesis-pending period
8.
Submission must be made within 4 years from initial registration and accordingly the majority of candidates shall not be entitled to a thesis pending period after completing four years of registered study.
Submission of portfolio thesis
9.
The candidate shall submit a portfolio thesis for examination in accordance with the requirements of the research centre/programme.
Examination
10.
Candidates shall be examined by one Internal Examiner, one External academic Examiner and normally one External Examiner who is an industrialist.
Outcomes of examination
Includes:
candidates who do not undertake or fail research portfolio
11.
The degree of EngD will be conferred on candidates who have successfully completed the taught component of the programme and have satisfied the Examiners as to the standard of the portfolio thesis.
12.
The Examiners may recommend to the University the following outcomes of examination:
Award of degree for which the student is registered, or
Award of the degree subject to correction of typographical errors within one month
Award of the degree subject to minor amendments to be completed within three months, or
Require the candidate to attend for a second viva voce examination and resubmit the same thesis (which may be subject to minor amendments to be completed within three months), or
Resubmit the thesis in a revised form within twelve months with/without attending a second viva voce examination, or
That no higher degree be awarded and that the candidate is not allowed to present him/herself again for examination for the degree for which the thesis was submitted.
13.
Candidates who either do not undertake or fail the research portfolio but successfully complete part or the whole of the taught programme may be considered for the following awards: Postgraduate Certificate (60 credits), Postgraduate Diploma (120 credits) or MSc (180 credits) depending on the specifications of the individual programme.
14.
Where a thesis has been resubmitted and/or a second viva voce examination has occurred, the Examiners may recommend to the University the following outcomes of examination:
Award of degree for which the student is registered, or
Award of the degree subject to correction of typographical errors within one month, or
Award of the degree with minor amendments to be completed within three months to the satisfaction of the internal examiner, or
Award of degree of MPhil without further conditions, or
Award of the degree of MPhil with minor amendments to be completed within three months
No higher degree awarded and no further examination opportunity.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-dclinpsy-presept23.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology before 2023
Intro: This section contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology before 2023. These pages are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology before 2023 - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology before 2023
This section contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology before 2023. These pages are relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Pages within this section
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) from September 2019
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) before September 2019
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) before September 2017
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Graduate School - PGR
GS-PGR@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-dclinpsy-sept23-21-22.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) from September 2023 (2021 and 2022 intake)
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) from September 2023 (2021 and 2022 intake). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) from September 2023 (2021 and 2022 intake) - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) from September 2023 (2021 and 2022 intake)
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) from September 2023 (2021 and 2022 intake). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1. Admission requirements
1.1
A candidate for the Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) degree must:
(a)
Be a graduate of this or any other approved university holding a Bachelor’s degree in Psychology or an equivalent subject recognised by the British Psychological Society (BPS) as conferring Graduate Basis for Chartership. This will normally be a first or upper second class honours but candidates with a lower second-class honours degree or other equivalent qualification may be considered if they have a postgraduate degree at Masters level or higher. The only entry to the programme is at the beginning of Year 1. There is no provision for advanced entry based on Recognition of Other Learning (ROL) or Recognition of Experiential Learning (ROEL).
(b)
Meet the essential characteristics of the NHS person specification for a Clinical Psychologist in Training and course specification.
(c)
Have the personal and intellectual resources to pursue a challenging and demanding research oriented programme.
(d)
Have previous supervised practical experience relevant to clinical training.
(e)
The programme covers a wide geographical area and teaching is provided at both the University of Nottingham (UoN) and the University of Lincoln (UoL) (the universities)
.
It is therefore a requirement that students are able to make their own personal arrangements to travel to and from the universities and their respective work placements. Students should expect to have to travel for at least 3 hours a day (e.g. between universities and from base to placement).
(f)
Candidates will be subject to an interview process and must complete Disclosure and Barring Scheme checks and health checks for acceptability as an NHS employee.
(g)
Applicants whose first language is not English and who have not previously studied in Higher Education in English, must as a minimum, have one of the following:
A British Council IELTS overall minimum score of 7.5 with no element below 7.0, achieved no more than 2 years prior to admission.
Pearson Test of English Academic 73 (minimum 67).
CELE pre-sessional course final assessment of “Pass with High Distinction”
2. Course of study
2.1
A candidate for the degree of DClinPsy must have pursued at one of the universities a full-time course of study comprising a taught component, clinical placements and one research project. Completion of the DClinPsy programme requires a minimum of 3 years of full-time supervised study.
2.2
The universities’ Regulations for Taught Masters Degrees, Postgraduate Diploma and Postgraduate Certificate courses shall apply with regard to satisfactory progression on the taught element of the degree. All modules on the programme are compulsory and non-compensatable. For more information, please consult the following:
Postgraduate Taught study regulations
University of Lincoln - Undergraduate regulations
2.3
Students on the DClinPsy programme are called ‘trainees’. Each trainee on the programme is enrolled at both the University of Lincoln and the University of Nottingham, and on successful completion shall be awarded the degree by one or other of the universities.
2.4
The University of Nottingham’s Fitness to Practise procedures, as set out at Annex C, shall apply to all trainees. Annexes B, D, E, F and G specify which of the two universities’ regulations shall be followed in respect of Extenuating Circumstances; Student Complaints; Academic Offences (UoL)/Misconduct (UoN); Academic Appeals; and Student Conduct and Discipline
.
3. Programme structure
3.1
Structure of Awards
The standard modules in the DClinPsy award are multiples of 5 credit points, as appropriate to the level of study, with 1 credit point equating to 10 notional learning hours. The modules will be at Master (M) or Doctoral (D) level according to the table below:
Table of award, tariff and notional learning hours
Award
Tariff (level)
Notional Learning Hours
The Doctorate in Clinical Psychology
540 (M/D)
5,400
Masters Degree in Applied Psychology (available as an exit award only)
180 (M/D) These credits contribute towards the credits for the award of the doctorate
1,800
3.1
The
programme
shall
be
structured
according
to
the
following
principles:
(a)
180 credits of taught
provision
(b)
80 credits of placement/taught
provision
(c)
280 credits of research project provision resulting in production of Research Project Portfolio (maximum 45,000 words plus appendices,
etc)
(d)
180 credits / 6 modules designated as taught and 280 credits / 3 modules designated as research.
(e)
100 credits at Level 7; the remaining 440 credits being at Level 8.
A description of the programme structure is at Annex A
4. Assessment
4.1
Compensation cannot be offered for failure of any component within a module.
4.2
All placement assessments are graded on a pass or fail basis.
4.3
Where no formal extension has been agreed, a late submission will be deemed a failed submission.
4.3.1
Where leave in relation to sickness has been given by the NHS manager, an extension of equal duration for assignment deadlines will normally be given.
4.3.2
Where leave in relation to a period of Interruption to Studies has been given by either University, an extension of equal duration for assignment deadlines will normally be given.
4.3.3.
Notwithstanding the above, all trainees must submit extension requests to the University of Lincoln with supporting documentation, which may include a PASS / Learning Support Plan.
4.4
All placements are assessed by the trainee’s supervisor, Clinical Tutor and, where appropriate, Co-Director (Clinical Practice). Supervisor assessments for taught placements are regarded as recommendations to the Programme Directors with the final decision to pass or fail the placement made by the Board of Examiners.
5. Reassessment opportunities
5.1
Trainees who have failed modules shall be offered one opportunity to be reassessed with the following
exceptions:
5.1.1
Taught Modules
Taught modules assessed by a Practice Based Learning Assessment (PBL): Only one PBL module may be reassessed. If a trainee fails one component or more of a second PBL module assessed by a PBL assessment, no further reassessment will be allowed and the trainee will not be permitted to continue on the programme. Resits will normally be submitted within 6 weeks of formal notification of assessment failure.
5.1.2
Placement
Modules
Placements are assessed by a combination of case studies (written and oral) and clinical assessments. Trainees will be permitted one opportunity to resit one placement module. If a trainee fails one component or more of a second placement module, no further reassessment will be permitted and the trainee will not be permitted to continue on the programme.
(a)
Trainees who require funding to re-sit a placement failed by the clinical assessment will need the agreement of
NHS
Commissioners to continue funding an extension of the trainee’s employment and studies during the course of the three-year programme (see
below).
(b)
Where a trainee requires an extension of the training contract, the University may be asked to confirm that the trainee is expected to satisfactorily complete and is suitable to work as a registered Clinical Psychologist, adhering to the expectations of
NHS
employment
practice.
6. Boards of examiners
6.1
The Board of Examiners shall have responsibility for assessment in respect of the taught elements of the programme (see programme structure in Annex A) which will feed into the considerations of the Programme Research Annual Review (RAR) panel which shall have responsibility for assessment of the research elements of the programme and for confirming a student’s entitlement to progression.
6.2
Determination of a student’s entitlement to conferment of the final award shall be the responsibility of the Board of Examiners
.
6.3
All meetings of the Board of Examiners are deemed to be held jointly between the universities and no restrictions on the exchange of information shall apply.
6.4
In recognition of the link between academic progression and employment status, the programme may communicate directly with trainees who are in danger of programme failure and thereby of losing their employment. The Programme Directors will have responsibility for informing trainees’ NHS employers of concerns about trainees’ employment status and programme failure.
7. Progression
Includes: taught components; research components
7.1 Taught components
7.1.1
In order to progress through subsequent years, trainees shall have passed all the required elements of the taught modules at each stage of the programme.
7.1.2
Where students have first-sit submissions outstanding at the time of the Board, trainees are allowed to 'proceed with conditions' where those conditions apply to the following modules: Individual Client Interventions (Year1) PSTY4014; Integration and Specialist Options (year 2) PSTY5033; Foundation Placement B (Year 1) PSTY4067 and Second Year Placements (Year 2) PSTY5030.
7.1.3
Where students reach a progression point but have outstanding resit opportunities, the Boards of Examiners shall permit 'proceed with conditions' to the next level of study pending completion of the outstanding elements. A Board decision on progression or withdrawal will be made at the next available Board.
7.2 Research components
7.1.1
Each candidate will have at least two academic supervisors for the Research Modules that comprise the Research Project Portfolio.
7.1.2
Progress records shall be confirmed by Programme Research Annual Review (RAR) panels at least annually and make recommendations to the Board of Examiners.
7.2.3
Upon receipt of the progress record, the trainee transcript and any additional information that it has required, the RAR panel can recommend to the Board of Examiners that:
(a)
the enrolment of the trainee shall continue or
(b)
the enrolment of the trainee shall continue and the student must be reassessed in failed elements of the annual review
(c)
the trainee’s course of studies be terminated and the award of the MSc in Applied Psychology be considered or
(d)
the trainee’s course of studies be terminated and no award be made
8. Submission of research project portfolio and examination
8.1
The candidate shall submit a Research Project Portfolio for examination, which shall comprise of a draft journal paper, an extended paper (including an updated literature review and extended methods, analysis, results and discussion sections), a critical reflection and a poster.
8.2
The Research Project Portfolio shall be of a standard to indicate the creation and interpretation of new knowledge through original research, which extends the forefront of the discipline. The work reported shall be of a quality to satisfy peer review and merit publication in a scientific journal.
8.3
Candidates will submit their Research Project Portfolios in February of their third year of training, to be examined viva voce by May that year. Candidates who miss the February deadline can only next submit their portfolio in June, to have their viva voce examination in September. Precise dates will be published at the beginning of each academic year. Candidates who submit after June will have their viva voce examination conducted in line with the timeframes specified in university regulations.
9. Outcomes of portfolio examination
9.1
The Examiners may recommend the following outcomes of examination for candidates:
Pass the research component of the degree
Pass the research component of the degree subject to minor corrections within one month
Pass the research component of the degree subject to minor amendments to be completed within three months
Require the candidate to attend for a second viva voce examination and resubmit the same portfolio (which may be subject to minor amendments to be completed within three months)
Require the candidate to resubmit the portfolio in a revised form within twelve months with or without attending a second viva voce examination
Fail the research component of the degree with no further opportunity for resubmission.
10. Doctoral award
1.1
The degree of DClinPsy will be conferred on candidates who:
a)
have successfully completed the taught component of the programme, and
b)
have satisfied the Examiners as to the standard of the Research Project Portfolio, and
c)
have achieved all standards of proficiency required by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and core competencies required by the BPS, and
d)
have supplied all raw data for the research portfolio to the school administrators, and
e)
have obtained confirmation from the primary research supervisor that they have prepared a submission ready journal paper, and
f)
are not subject to any Fitness to Practise Proceedings.
1.2
The DClinPsy degree is awarded as a simple Pass, without classification or distinction/merit categories.
11. Award of Masters in Applied Psychology
11.1
A candidate for the degree of DClinPsy who achieves less than 540 but 180 or more credits may be eligible for the award of Master of Science Degree in Applied Psychology. To be awarded this MSc trainees must have successfully completed a total of 180 Level (M, D) credits with at least 60 credits from research modules.
11.2
There is no provision for the award of a Postgraduate Certificate or Postgraduate Diploma.
Annex A
Table of module details
Year
Module Acronym
Title of Module
Level
Semester
Credits
Module Type
1
PRS
Professional Skills
7
1
40
Academic
ICI
Individual Client Interventions
7
1 & 2
40
Academic
FPA
Foundation Placement A: (placement activity)
7
1
Essential placement activity not credit rated
Placement
FPB
Foundation Placement B: (Placement activity and case study)
7
2
Essential placement activity not credit rated
Case study 20 credits
Placement
ERA
Research Ethics & Design
8
1
80
Research
Research Systematic Literature Review
2
2
LSD
Lifespan Development
8
1
20
Academic
ISO
Integration & Specialist Options
8
2
40
Academic
SYP
Second Year Placement – A
8
1
Essential placement activity not credit rated
Case study 20 credits
Placement
Second Year Placement – B
8
2
Placement
BRM
Data collection & analysis, APEs
8
1 & 2
100
Research
3
BRP
Research Portfolio and Viva
8
1 & 2
100
Research
FGI
Families, Groups & Indirect Work
8
1
20
Academic
SOS
Systems and Organisations
8
2
20
Academic
TYP
Third Year Placement - Specialist
8
1 or 2
Essential placement activity not credit rated
Two case studies 40 credits
Placement
Third Year Placement - Final
8
1 or 2
Placement
Annex B - Mitigating circumstances
The Mitigating Circumstances regulations of the University of Lincoln shall apply to this programme. These regulations can be accessed via:
University of Lincoln - Mitigating Circumstances
Annex C - Fitness to practise
The Fitness to Practise regulations of the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences at the University of Nottingham shall apply to this programme, subject to the following adjustments:
The term ‘trainee’ shall be used throughout in preference to that of ‘student’.
Concerns that a trainee may not be fit to practise Clinical Psychology shall be made to the Programme Co-Director at the trainee’s degree-awarding university.
References to ‘the head of studies’ shall be read as referring to the relevant Programme Co-Director.
In the section headed ‘Investigations’, the reference to “the University’s Occupational Health Service” shall be read as referring to the trainee’s employer’s Occupational Health Service.
These regulations can be accessed via:
Registration, attendance and study
The current form of the regulations, as they apply to the programme are as follows: Fitness to Practise Procedure
1.   Initiation of the Procedure
1.1.
Any concerns that a trainee may have acted in such a way or may suffer from a health problem which may render that trainee a person not fit to be admitted to and practise Clinical Psychology should be disclosed to the Programme Co- Director at the trainee’s degree awarding university.
1.2.
The disclosure should normally be made in writing using the concern form. In cases where the initial disclosure is not in the concern form format e.g. notification of criminal conviction, then the relevant Co-director should ensure that a concern form containing the disclosure is completed. The person making the disclosure must identify themselves; disclosures which are raised anonymously will not normally be considered. In exceptional circumstances the discloser’s identity may be permitted to remain confidential.
1.3.
The raising of a concern form does not usually indicate a fitness to practise issue. However, the existence of multiple concern forms may show a pattern which does indicate a fitness to practise issue. Therefore on the receipt of an individual concern form which on its own does not raise a fitness to practise issue the Co- directors, should jointly review whether other concern forms have been raised, which when all considered together raise issues regarding the trainee’s fitness to practise, e.g. professional behaviour.
1.4.
Where there are concerns that are serious then a trainee may be excluded from clinical placements by their Clinical Tutor on advice of the Co-directors. Some examples of a serious concern would include, but not as an exclusive list, situations where:
patients may be placed at risk or;
the profession might be brought into disrepute by the public knowing that the trainee remained in a clinical environment or;
that a trainee’s conduct was deemed to be disruptive to the delivery of clinical care or clinical teaching  in a partner, usually NHS, organisation.
Concerns may be such that trainees can be suspended from their course with immediate effect by the Dean or by the head of studies. If this decision is based on a concern related to discipline or health and safety then appropriate procedures as set out within the Code of Discipline for Students and the Quality Manual should be followed.
If trainees are allowed to return from suspension, they will be expected to comply with any conditions decided by the School or imposed as part of the outcome of any other procedure.
1.5.
A trainee will not be allowed to graduate from either University if they are subject to a fitness to practise investigation or hearing which has not been completed.
2.
Investigations
2.1.
On receipt of a disclosure which gives rise to a fitness to practise concern, the relevant Co-director shall promptly, and normally within 5 working days, arrange for the matter to be investigated and shall notify the trainee of the following:
The basis of the concerns and any allegations against them.
The identity of the investigating
officer.
Any limitations or conditions placed upon the continuance of studies or supervised practice during the period of the
investigation.
2.2
The trainee can register an objection to the appointment of the investigating officer on the basis of a lack of impartiality. Such an objection needs to the relevant Co-director within 5 working days. Examples would include where the investigating officer has initially raised the concern e.g. probity issues, or where the investigating officer has had interaction with the trainee on an unrelated contentious issue. If this objection is upheld a new investigating officer should be appointed.
2.3
The investigating officer may request members of staff connected with the
case to provide written comments on the trainee’s conduct and/or health, explaining why there is concern as to fitness to practise. Factual information about the trainee’s professional progress on the course and any other relevant documentation should also be
provided.
2.4.
The investigating officer shall interview relevant individuals including the trainee themselves. At such interviews the investigating officer shall be accompanied by an assistant who shall prepare a written note of the
interview
2.5.
The investigating officer should ensure that the trainee is advised of appropriate pastoral support mechanisms within their University and Trainees’
Union.
2.6.
The trainee is entitled to have a person of their choosing attend the interview with them in order to support them at the meeting. The trainee should
confirm the name and status of the person accompanying them in writing to the Investigating Officer in advance of the interview. The person supporting the trainee is not attending the interview as an advocate or character witness.
2.7.
The trainee may be required to attend their employer’s Occupational Health Service in order that advice on his or her fitness to practise on medical grounds may be sought. In cases where there is evidence of recurring health problems or with addictive behaviours, Occupational health referral is
required.
2.8.
Save in exceptional circumstances, the investigating officer shall, no later than 15 working days after the referral by the Co-directors, make a written report of the results of the investigation to the Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences at The University of Nottingham detailing all evidence obtained. From this point onwards all further stages of the Fitness to Practise Procedure are handled by the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences at The University of Nottingham.
3.  Referral to Fitness to Practise  Committee
3.1
Promptly on receipt of the report from the investigating officer, and in any event within 5 working days, the Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences shall consult the Dean of the Faculty who will determine, in the light of the seriousness of the matter and the strength of the evidence, whether the case should be referred to the Fitness to Practise
Committee.
3.2
The Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences will notify the trainee in writing of the
following.
The outcome of the investigation and the Dean’s decision.
Whether the matter is to be referred to the Fitness to Practise Committee together with full details of the procedures to be  adopted.
The imposition of any conditions/limitations placed on the trainee’s
studies.
3.3
In the event that the Fitness to Practise Committee is to be convened, the Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences will notify the trainee
of the identity of the Committee members and the date of the proposed meeting of the Committee and make available to him/her, all of the evidence detailed in the investigating officer’s
report.
3.4
The trainee shall be allowed at least 15 working days in which to prepare his/her case. All information on which the trainee intends to rely must be received by the FTP Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, who will then distribute this information to the members of the Fitness to Practise Committee and the Investigating Officer, at least 5 working days before the date set for the meeting of the
Committee.
3.5
In exceptional circumstances the Dean may determine that a warning should be issued to the trainee without a Fitness to Practise Committee hearing as the means of disposal of the FTP procedure, according to section 7 (below). The usual example of when this would be considered is when a criminal conviction or caution has been admitted. This disposal shall only be considered when the following four conditions are
met:
With the agreement of the trainee, confirmed in writing to the FTP Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine & Health
Science
When the trainee fully admits to the allegation upon which a concern has been based. This admission would be part of the evidence provided by the investigating officer
The trainee demonstrates insight into the nature of the concern and expresses remorse as specified in the evidence provided by the investigating officer
When the Dean is satisfied that the nature of the concern does not raise the possibility
of
another
outcome
beyond
a
warning
as
specified
in
section
7
(below)
4.   Attendance at the
Meeting
4.1
The trainee will be required to attend the meeting in person.If the trainee fails to attend without reasonable explanation, the Committee will consider the case in the trainee’s absence. The Chair will have discretion as to what constitutes a ‘reasonable
explanation’.
4.2
The University’s case will be presented by the investigating officer or his or her nominee.
4.3
At the discretion of the Chair, the Committee may also call upon other persons (whether or not a current member of the University) to provide advice on specific aspects of the case in writing or in
person.
4.4
The trainee is entitled to have a person of their choosing attend the hearing with them (referred to here as "the friend"), and is permitted to have the person of their choosing speak on their behalf. The trainee should confirm the name and status of the person accompanying them in writing to the Secretary no less than four working days before the
hearing.
5.  Composition of the
Committee
5.1
The Committee will comprise as a minimum the Chair (a senior member of the academic staff from outside the professional discipline of the trainee)
and
two members. At least one member should be a clinically active member of the
same professional discipline as the trainee. The Committee will be serviced by a Secretary who is not a member but will be present throughout the
proceedings.
5.2
Anyone who is asked to be a member of the Committee, who has been personally involved in the trainee's case at any prior stage needs to inform the Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences of this. This person will then not be able to be a member of the Committee and another member will need to be appointed.
6.   Procedure for the conduct of the meeting
This section is a guide to the conduct of the meeting itself. The Chair has discretion to vary these arrangements as they think fit.
6.1
Prior to the meeting the Secretary to the Committee will ensure the trainee has copies of all documents circulated to members of the Committee and is aware of the procedures to be
followed.
6.2
The Chair will ask if any member has been personally involved in the trainee's case at any prior stage and, if so, will ask them to withdraw from the
meeting.
6.3
The
trainee,
the
friend
(if
attending)
and
staff
will
then
join
the
Committee.
6.4
The Chair will introduce by name and explain the functions of the members of the Committee, the staff, and any others     present.
6.5
The Chair will explain the powers of the Committee, as set out in
section7.
6.6
The Chair will invite the investigating officer (or nominee) to make an opening statement and then invite the Committee to ask questions. Other staff attending will be offered the same opportunity to make a statement and may be asked questions.
6.7
The Chair will invite the trainee or the friend to make a statement. The Chair will explain that the Committee will wish to hear directly from the trainee in their own words.
6.8
Members of the Committee will be invited to question the
trainee.
6.9
The Chair will invite any other person(s) called upon by the Chair to attend the meeting (as referred to in section 4.3), to make a brief statement,
and
will then invite the Committee to ask
questions.
6.10
At each stage the Chair has discretion to allow reciprocal questioning by the various
parties.
6.11
Once the Chair is satisfied that the Committee has completed their questioning and the trainee and staff have had a full opportunity to convey information to the Committee, both the trainee and members of staff will
withdraw.
6.12
The Committee will then discuss the
case.
6.13
If for any reason the Committee requires further clarification of any aspect of the case from either the trainee or staff members they must be all invited back into the meeting while the questioning takes place. When the Chair so determines they will then leave the meeting
again.
6.14
The Committee will make its decision on the basis of the balance of probabilities and shall be taken by a simple majority of the members present and voting. The Chair shall have a casting vote in the event of a
tie.
6.15
The decision, and any findings of fact, will be conveyed to the trainee and the other parties as soon as possible, and will in any event be conveyed to the trainee in writing within two working days of the decision being
reached.
7.  Powers of the Fitness to Practise
Committee
7.1
The
Committee,
following
consideration
of
the
case,
has
the
power
to:
a.
permit the trainee to continue with the course with no warning or sanction;
b
.
warn the trainee that there is evidence of misconduct but the trainee’s fitness to practise is not impaired to a point requiring any of the sanctions listed
below;
c.
impose a sanction. Beginning with the least severe, the sanctions
are:
i.
undertakings
ii.
conditions
iii.
suspension from the
course;
iv.
expulsion from the
course.
(Guidance on the imposition of these sanctions is offered in the GMC document
Medical trainees: professional behaviour and fitness to practise
(2007) and the RPSGB (Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain) document
Guidance on trainee fitness to practise procedures in schools of pharmacy
(2009)).
7.1
Where a trainee’s studies are terminated, assistance
will
be given to the trainee to transfer to an alternative course of study which does not provide a license to practise, if this is considered
appropriate.
7.2
Where it proves impossible to continue to offer the course because the trainee is deemed incapable on non-academic grounds (such as health) of completing it and will not therefore be fit to practise, every effort will be made to offer an appropriate alternative course of
study.
8.  Appeals
8.1
The trainee may appeal to the University’s Academic Appeals Committee
against any warning or sanction imposed by the Fitness to Practise
Committee.
8.2
The policy and procedure for an appeal are set out in the Quality
Manual.
9.  Confidentiality
The personal data of trainees will be processed by the University in compliance with the Data Protection Act. However, it may be necessary to pass personal information to other organisations such as the NHS,
professional accrediting bodies or other institutes of higher education where there is a real issue about a trainee's fitness to practise and where this represents a risk to patients or members of the
public.
Annex D - Trainee complaints procedure
The investigation and determination of complaints shall follow the Complaints Procedures of the University directly responsible for the matters or persons or events complained of, and which has the authority to provide remedies where the complaints are upheld.
Where a complaint contains substantive elements relating to both universities, investigation and determination shall follow the Complaints Procedures of the trainee’s degree-awarding university, and the other university shall provide full co-operation.
These regulations can be accessed via:
University of Lincoln - Student Complaints
University of Nottingham - Student Complaints
Annex E - Academic offences
The Academic Offences Policy of the trainee’s degree awarding University shall apply to this programme. These regulations can be accessed via:
University of Lincoln - Academic Offences
University of Nottingham - Policy on Academic Misconduct
Annex F - Academic appeals
The Academic Appeals Policy of the trainee’s degree awarding University shall apply to this programme. These regulations can be accessed via:
University of Lincoln - Academic Reviews and Appeals
University of Nottingham - Policy on academic appeals
Annex G - Conduct and discipline policy
The Conduct and Discipline Policy of the trainee’s degree awarding University shall apply to this programme. These regulations can be accessed via:
University of Lincoln -Student Conduct and Discipline
University of Nottingham - Student code of discipline
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
21 March 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-dforenpsy.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Forensic Psychology (DForenPsy)
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Forensic Psychology (DForenPsy). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Forensic Psychology (DForenPsy) - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Forensic Psychology (DForenPsy)
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Forensic Psychology (DForenPsy). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
The regulations for the DForenPsy are those which govern the PhD except where the following modify or supplement them.
Admission requirements
1.
A candidate for the Doctor of Forensic Psychology must be a graduate of this or any other approved university holding either a first or second class honours degree from a psychology programme accredited by the British Psychological Society and some relevant experience for the full entry into year 1. Alternatively, candidates holding a Master's degree in Forensic Psychology which is accredited by the British Psychological Society and who have completed at least 100 days of relevant practice experience in a forensic setting under supervision from a psychologist may join the programme from year 2.
Course of study
2.
A candidate for the degree of DForenPsy must have pursued at this University a full-time course of study comprising a taught component and a thesis. Subject to the entry requirements of section 1 above, completion of the DForenPsy programme requires a minimum of 3 years of full-time supervised study (2 years if entry is to year 2), or part-time equivalent.
Taught component
3.
The taught component requires the successful completion of 60 credits of modules as specified in the DForenPsy course handbook and the equivalent of a 120-credit research dissertation, normally carried out during the first year of the course. Candidates wishing to exit the course at the Masters stage may be eligible for the MSc (by Research) in Forensic and Criminological Psychology subject to the University's Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research) which also apply with regard to satisfactory progression on the taught element of this degree. The MSc (by Research) award is only available to candidates who exit the programme without completing the doctoral element.
For more information, please consult the following:
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Arts by Research (MA by Research) and Master of Science by Research (MSc by Research) before September 2018
Progression
4.
For progression to the doctoral component students will normally have achieved an overall average of at least 60% (merit level) in the taught element, the research dissertation and have completed at least 100 days of relevant practice experience in a forensic setting under supervision from a psychologist.
Supervisors
5.
Each candidate will have at least two academic supervisors, and one supervisor for each of the forensic placements who will be a HCPC registered Forensic Psychology Practitioner and act as a ‘Coordinating Supervisor’. The responsibility of the ‘Coordinating Supervisor’ is to help plan the placement experience and research work to ensure the student has adequate breadth and depth of study to fulfil the professional registration requirements and fitness to practise.
6.
The University's policies with regard to supervision and annual review of progress shall apply. More information can be found here:
Supervision
Progression review of research students
Thesis Pending Period
7.
Submission of the doctoral thesis and practice portfolio must be made within 4 years from initial registration for full-time students and accordingly the majority of candidates shall be entitled to a thesis pending period after completing 3 years of registered study. For part-time students submission must be made within 8 years from initial registration.
Submission of thesis
Includes:
submission of practice portfolio
8.
The candidate shall submit for examination, a doctoral thesis of a maximum of 50,000 words, which shall comprise of four components:
a systematic review (10,000 words);
a large primary research study (or 2 smaller related studies - 10,000 words);
a case study related to the research topic (10,000 words);
and a critique of a psychometric measure used in the research (6,000 words).
9.
The candidate shall also submit a practice portfolio which shall comprise of six components:
four placement reports (maximum of 6,000 words each);
a diary of evidence (maximum of 30,000 words);
a case study NOT related to the doctoral thesis (10,000 words); and a training report (6,000 words).
Examination of Doctoral Thesis
10.
Candidates shall be examined by one Internal Examiner and one External Examiner and in accordance with the PhD regulations. A viva voce examination shall be held on both the doctoral thesis and practice portfolio, weighted equally at 50%/50%.
Outcomes of examination
Includes:
candidates who do not undertake or fail research thesis or practice portfolio
11.
The degree of DForenPsy will be conferred on candidates who have successfully completed the taught element of the programme and have satisfied the Examiners as to the standard of the doctoral thesis and practice portfolio.
12.
Candidates who either do not undertake, or fail, the research thesis or practice portfolio, but successfully complete part or the whole of the taught programme, may be considered for the following awards: Postgraduate Certificate in Criminological Psychology (60 credits) or MSc (by Research) in Forensic and Criminological Psychology (180 credits) subject to MSc (by Research) regulations.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
28 September 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-docwhw.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Workplace Health and Wellbeing (DocWHW)
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Workplace Health and Wellbeing (DocWHW). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Workplace Health and Wellbeing (DocWHW) - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Workplace Health and Wellbeing (DocWHW)
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Workplace Health and Wellbeing (DocWHW). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
The regulations for the Professional Doctorate in Workplace Health and Wellbeing are those which govern the PhD except where the following modify or supplement them.
Admission requirements
1.
A candidate for the Professional Doctorate in Workplace Health and Wellbeing must have studied towards the MSc Workplace Health and Wellbeing programme offered by the University of Nottingham and achieved a credit weighted average grade of no less than 70% across all 180 credits. These candidates would normally be eligible to transfer prior to the award of the MSc directly onto year 3 (part time) of the Professional Doctorate in Workplace Health and Wellbeing. No direct entry route to this programme is available.
Course of study
2.
A candidate for the degree of Professional Doctorate in Workplace Health and Wellbeing must have pursued at this University a part-time course of study comprising a taught component and a thesis. Inclusive of the time spent studying towards the MSc in Workplace Health and Wellbeing, completion of the Professional Doctorate in Workplace Health and Wellbeing programme requires a minimum of 4 years of part-time supervised study.
3.
A candidate must have access to a relevant organisational setting in which to carry out their research.
Supervision
4.
Each candidate will have at least two academic supervisors.
5.
The University's policies with regard to supervision and annual review of progress shall apply.
Submission of thesis and examination
6.
Submissions will be subject to the University regulations on submission timeframes in the University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework but in no less than a period of 4 years part-time from initial registration on the MSc in Workplace Health and Wellbeing.
7.
The candidate shall submit a thesis of a maximum of 50,000 words for examination. The thesis should contain no fewer than two studies, considered by the external examiner to be worthy of submission to a peer-reviewed journal. At least one paper must have been submitted for publication to a peer-reviewed journal (with the primary supervisor’s consent) prior to thesis submission.
8.
Candidates shall be examined in accordance with PhD regulations.
Outcomes of examination
Includes:
failure to submit a thesis or a thesis deemed to be below standard
9.
The degree of Professional Doctorate in Workplace Health and Wellbeing will be conferred on candidates who have satisfied the Examiners as to the standard of the thesis.
10.
Candidates who fail to submit a thesis, or submit a thesis that is deemed by the examiners to be below doctoral standard will receive the MSc in Workplace Health and Wellbeing.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-dpp.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Public Policy (DPP)
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Public Policy (DPP). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Public Policy (DPP) - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Public Policy (DPP)
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Public Policy (DPP). Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1. Admission requirements
Includes:
applicants whose native language is not English
1.
A candidate for the Degree of Doctor of Public Policy (DPP) must:
(a)
Be a graduate of this or any other approved university holding a Bachelor’s degree (normally first or second class Honours or equivalent) and normally holding an appropriate Masters degree from this or any other approved university or
(b)
Hold such other qualifications as may, on the recommendation of the School, be deemed by Senate to be equivalent to the qualifications referred to in (a).
2.
Candidates will normally be expected to have a minimum of two years’ relevant practical experience.
3.
Applicants whose native language is not English, with the exception of those with special permission of the University based on written evidence, must as a minimum fulfill one of the following conditions:
(a)
British Council IELTS average final score of 6.5, with a minimum of 6.0 in any element, achieved no more than 2 years prior to admission
(b)
A TOEFL paper-based score of 573 or computer based score of 230, including in either case a minimum score of 4.5 in the test of Written English, or a iBT score of 88 or more with no less than 19 in any element, achieved no more than 2 years prior to admission.
The course is open to internal and external applicants.
2. Course of study
Includes:
taught component; progression; thesis component
A candidate for the Degree of Doctor of Public Policy must have pursued in this University a full- or part-time course of study comprising a taught component and one or more major research projects. The minimum period of registration for this programme will be two years full-time supervised study or four years’ part-time study. Candidates will also be entitled to a thesis pending period on completion of their period of registered study (one year for full-time students, two years for part-time students).
Taught component
The taught component requires the completion of 120 credits normally completed during the first year of the course (or two years if part-time). The taught component requires satisfactory completion of the following courses as part of a training programme in the theory of public policy and in research design and methods:
Making Public Policy (20 credits)
Public Management and Governance  (20 credits)
Comparative Public Policy (20 credits)
Research Design and Methods (30 credits)
Proposal for Research in Public Policy or Management (30 credits)
All modules are at level 4.
The assessment for each module shall consist of a formal assignment of 5,000-8,000 words or equivalent. Candidates are required to achieve a pass mark (50 per cent) in the assessment for each module. There is no compensation offered for failed work.
The topic for the Proposal for Research in Public Policy or Management will be selected in consultation with supervisors and should reflect the student’s proposed research topic or interrelated topics for their thesis. The proposal includes a literature review.
Progression
Candidates who fail to satisfy the Examiners in any of the above courses may be re-examined on such terms as the Senate, on the recommendation of the University, may decide. Candidates may normally be re-examined on one occasion only.
Admission to the research element of the course is normally dependent upon successful completion of the taught component.
Candidates who complete successfully the taught programme but who do not successfully complete the thesis may be awarded a Postgraduate Certificate, Diploma, or Masters in Public Policy.
The taught component uses new modules based on existing modules for Masters in Arts Public Policy, but taught as a three day block.
Thesis component
Candidates are required to submit a thesis of a minimum of 60,000 words and a maximum of 80,000 words on an approved topic or up to three interrelated topics. Where the thesis covers more than one topic, the minimum number of words for each topic is 20,000.
The thesis should offer an original application of knowledge in the area of public policy and should demonstrate the candidate’s ability to integrate rigorous academic analysis with practical relevance and application. The thesis should be the result of the student’s independent and original research done mainly while the candidate is registered for the degree. The candidate shall submit a certificate to this effect, countersigned by the candidate’s supervisor, when presenting the thesis. The submission should also be accompanied by evidence that the taught programme has been satisfactorily completed.
3. Assessment criteria
Includes:
failure
The degree of Doctor of Public Policy (DPP) will be conferred on candidates who have completed the taught programme, submitted a thesis in a form and of a standard as outlined above. Candidates are required to present themselves for a viva voce examination to be conducted by one internal (academic) Examiner who is not one of the candidate’s supervisors, one external (academic) Examiner plus any further examiner as deemed appropriate for the particular qualification.
Failure
A candidate for the degree of Doctor of Public Policy whose thesis fails to satisfy the Examiners may, by permission of Senate on the recommendation of the Examiners and the University, be allowed to:
(a)
Make minor corrections to the thesis to the satisfaction of the internal (academic) Examiner; or
(b)
To represent the same thesis and attend a second viva voce examination; or
(c)
To represent the thesis in a revised form and take the whole examination; or
(d)
To represent the thesis without taking the whole examination.
A candidate proceeding under this regulation shall normally be required to pursue a further course of directed study for a specified period that will not normally exceed one calendar year. Candidates who re-present their thesis again and fail to satisfy the Examiners may be awarded a Postgraduate Diploma or a Masters in Public Policy without further periods of study.
The qualification of Postgraduate Diploma in Public Policy may be awarded to a candidate who registers for the DPP, but who wishes to withdraw early from the programme, provided that the candidate has passed modules amounting to 120 credits and has achieved an overall average in those modules of 40 per cent.
The qualification of Master of Public Policy may be awarded to a candidate who registers for the DPP, but who wishes to withdraw early from the programme, provided that the candidate has passed modules amounting to 120 credits (including AP(E)L) and has achieved an overall average in those modules which achieve a mark of 50 per cent and submits a thesis equivalent to 60 credits (15,000 words).
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-dpm.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Public Management (DPM)
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Public Management (DPM). Its content is relevant to staff and students from across all UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Public Management (DPM) - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Public Management (DPM)
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Public Management (DPM). Its content is relevant to staff and students from across all UK, China and Malaysia campuses.1. Admission requirements
Includes:
applicants whose native language is not English
1.
A candidate for the Degree of Doctor of Public Management (DPM) must:
(a)
Be a graduate of this or any other approved university holding a Bachelor’s degree (normally first or second class Honours or equivalent) and normally holding an appropriate Masters degree from this or any other approved university or
(b)
Hold such other qualifications as may, on the recommendation of the School, be deemed by Senate to be equivalent to the qualifications referred to in (a).
2.
Candidates will normally be expected to have a minimum of two years’ relevant practical experience.
3.
Applicants whose native language is not English, with the exception of those with special permission of the University based on written evidence, must as a minimum fulfill one of the following conditions:
(a)
British Council IELTS average final score of 6.5, with a minimum of 6.0 in any element, achieved no more than 2 years prior to admission
(b)
A TOEFL paper-based score of 573 or computer based score of 230, including in either case a minimum score of 4.5 in the test of Written English, or a iBT score of 88 or more with no less than 19 in any element, achieved no more than 2 years prior to admission.
The course is open to internal and external applicants.
2. Course of Study
Includes:
taught component; progression; thesis component
A candidate for the Degree of Doctor of Public Management must have pursued in this University a full- or part-time course of study comprising a taught component and one or more major research projects. The minimum period of registration for this programme will be two years full-time supervised study or four years’ part-time study. Candidates will also be entitled to a thesis pending period on completion of their period of registered study (one year for full-time students, two years for part-time students).
Taught component
The taught component requires the completion of 120 credits normally completed during the first year of the course (or two years if part-time). The taught component requires satisfactory completion of the following courses as part of a training programme in the theory of public policy and in research design and methods:
Making Public Policy (20 credits)
Public Management and Governance (20 credits)
Leadership, Strategy and Performance in the Public Sector (20 credits)
Research Design and Methods (30 credits)
Proposal for Research in Public Policy or Management (30 credits)
All modules are at level 4.
The assessment for each module shall consist of a formal assignment of 5,000-8,000 words or equivalent. Candidates are required to achieve a pass mark (50 per cent) in the assessment for each module. There is no compensation offered for failed work.
The topic for the Proposal for Research in Public Policy or Management will be selected in consultation with supervisors and should reflect the student’s proposed research topic or interrelated topics for their thesis. The proposal includes a literature review.
Progression
Candidates who fail to satisfy the Examiners in any of the above courses may be re-examined on such terms as the Senate, on the recommendation of the University, may decide. Candidates may normally be re-examined on one occasion only.
Admission to the research element of the course is normally dependent upon successful completion of the taught component.
Candidates who complete successfully the taught programme but who do not successfully complete the thesis may be awarded a Postgraduate Certificate, Diploma, or Masters in Public Management.
The taught component uses new modules based on existing modules for Masters in Public Management, but taught as a three day block.
Thesis component
Candidates are required to submit a thesis of a minimum of 60,000 words and a maximum of 80,000 words on an approved topic or up to three inter-related topics. Where the thesis covers more than one topic, the minimum number of words for each topic is 20,000.
The thesis should offer an original application of knowledge in the area of public policy and should demonstrate the candidate’s ability to integrate rigorous academic analysis with practical relevance and application. The thesis should be the result of the student’s independent and original research done mainly while the candidate is registered for the degree. The candidate shall submit a certificate to this effect, countersigned by the candidate’s supervisor, when presenting the thesis. The submission should also be accompanied by evidence that the taught programme has been satisfactorily completed.
3. Assessment criteria
Includes:
failure
The degree of Doctor of Public Management will be conferred on candidates who have completed the taught programme, submitted a thesis in a form and of a standard as outlined above. Candidates are required to present themselves for a viva voce examination to be conducted by one internal (academic) Examiner who is not one of the candidate’s supervisors, one external (academic) Examiner plus any further examiner as deemed appropriate for the particular qualification.
Failure
A candidate for the degree of Doctor of Public Management whose thesis fails to satisfy the Examiners may, by permission of Senate on the recommendation of the Examiners and the University, be allowed to:
(a)
Make minor corrections to the thesis to the satisfaction of the internal (academic) Examiner; or
(b)
To represent the same thesis and attend a second viva voce examination; or
(c)
To represent the thesis in a revised form and take the whole examination; or
(d)
To represent the thesis without taking the whole examination.
A candidate proceeding under this regulation shall normally be required to pursue a further course of directed study for a specified period that will not normally exceed one calendar year. Candidates who re-present their thesis again and fail to satisfy the Examiners may be awarded a Postgraduate Diploma or a Masters in Public Management without further periods of study.
The qualification of Postgraduate Diploma in Public Policy may be awarded to a candidate who registers for the DPP, but who wishes to withdraw early from the programme, provided that the candidate has passed modules amounting to 120 credits and has achieved an overall average in those modules of 40 per cent.
The qualification of Master of Public Management may be awarded to a candidate who registers for the DPP, but who wishes to withdraw early from the programme, provided that the candidate has passed modules amounting to 120 credits (including AP(E)L) and has achieved an overall average in those modules which achieve a mark of 50 per cent and submits a thesis equivalent to 60 credits (15,000 words).
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-mres-biosciences-sept19.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in the School of Biosciences
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in the School of Biosciences from September 2019, including admissions, examination and award of degree information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in the School of Biosciences - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in the School of Biosciences
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in the School of Biosciences from September 2019, including admissions, examination and award of degree information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview and regulations
The regulations for the MRes portfolio in the School of Biosciences are those which govern the University of Nottingham MRes available here:
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) from September 2019
Except where the following sections modify or supplement them.
The supplementary regulations below apply to:
MRes Biosciences
MRes Agricultural Systems Management
MRes Animal Sciences
MRes Food Sciences
MRes Environmental Sciences
MRes Microbiology
Admissions requirement
1.
Requirements for admission to a research degree are set out in the University of Nottingham’s Quality Manual in the section entitled Admissions. For more information, please consult the following:
Admissions
Programme of study
2.
Students will be admitted to a one year, full-time (two years, part-time) programme of study. Entry points to align with the School’s PhD programmes: 1 October, 1 December, 1 February, 1 April and 1 July.
Taught and thesis elements
3.
Students are required to study modules worth 180 credits, of which 20 credits must be obtained from taught modules at Level 4 or from the Research Training Programme run by the Researcher Academy or other units offering generic training within the University, or from within any other generic training courses run within individual Schools. The remaining 160 credits must be obtained from a thesis module at Level 4. Any taught modules and research training taken must be clearly cognate with the student’s research topic. Supervision while undertaking the thesis module will be as set out in the module specification and in line with the requirements for supervision contained in the regulations for research degrees.
4.
The University’s Quality and Standards Committee has approved a variation in the number or taught credits required for this programme, as permitted under Regulation 4. of the University’s Regulations for the degree of Master of Research (MRes).
Transfer to PhD
5.
A candidate shall not be permitted to count the same period of research for both the degree of Master of Research (MRes) and the degree of PhD.  However a candidate for the MRes degree may, after a period of not less than nine months study for the MRes and prior to the submission of the thesis, with the approval of the supervisor and Head of School (or equivalent), submit an application to the University for permission to be registered as a candidate for the degree of PhD instead of a Master of Research.  The period of registration for the degree of PhD should normally be three years (and not less than two years) full-time from the initial date of registration for the MRes.
Assessment
Includes:
module specifications; submitting thesis before end of registered study; viva voce examinations
6.
The assessment of all modules is as set out in the specifications for those modules. In regard to the thesis module, the maximum word length of the thesis is 35,000 words. The maximum word limit is inclusive of appendices, footnotes, tables but not the bibliography. The Thesis should embody the result of the candidate’s advanced study and research.
7.
Students are required to submit their thesis prior to the end of the period of registered study. Two copies of the thesis should be submitted to Student Services or equivalent (in a form prescribed by the University), who will forward the thesis to the Examiners. The thesis should not, whether in the same or a different form, have been submitted to this or any other University for the award of any degree.
8.
The thesis must be the result of the student’s own work. The requirement does not preclude a student obtaining limited assistance with proof-reading and with the routine collection and/or processing of data under guidelines and instructions clearly devised by the student. When such help is obtained it should be with the prior approval of the supervisor who must be satisfied that the spirit of the 'own work' requirement is not breached.
9.
The thesis is examined by both an External Examiner and an Internal Examiner appointed under the regulations governing the assessment of research degrees, who should provide independent reports on the thesis, indicating whether the thesis module has been passed; and also whether a viva voce examination is necessary. Where a viva voce examination is required by the examiners, this should be conducted in line with the relevant regulations for MPhil degrees.
For more information about the Viva voce examinations, please consult the following:
Viva voce examinations
Outcomes of examination
Includes:
award of degree; where a student obtains a fail mark or failed thesis or training credits; nottingham etheses service
10.
The degree is awarded where all taught modules and training credits and the thesis module have been passed. The pass mark for all taught modules is 50%. Training credits will be assessed on a pass/fail basis.
11.
Where a student obtains a fail mark in a taught module, or fails the thesis module or training credits, the student has one further opportunity to pass those modules. All reassessments must be completed within one year of the end of the student's period of registered study.
12.
The qualification awarded to the student will include the subject of study undertaken as notified to the student at the time of admission.
13.
Successful candidates will be eligible to graduate once their thesis has been uploaded to the University’s etheses service and approved by the Internal Examiner or, in cases where there are two external examiners, the lead External Examiner.  For more information, please consult the following:
Nottingham eTheses
Students from countries that are not familiar with the MRes qualification may, alternatively, be awarded a MA or MSc by Research in order not to disadvantage those students.  The regulations for these awards will, though, be exactly the same as for the MRes. This will also be permitted, with QSC approval, where required by professional, regulatory or accrediting bodies.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-mres-vet-sci-sept20.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Veterinary Science
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Veterinary Science from September 2020, including admissions, examination and award of degree information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Veterinary Science - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Veterinary Science
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Veterinary Science from September 2020, including admissions, examination and award of degree information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview and regulations
The regulations for the MRes portfolio in Veterinary Science are those which govern the University of Nottingham MRes available here:
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) from September 2019
Except where the following sections modify or supplement them
Admissions requirement
1.
Requirements for admission to a research degree are set out in the University of Nottingham’s Quality Manual in the section entitled Admissions. For more information, please consult the following:
Admissions
Programme of study
2.
Students will be admitted to a one year, full-time (two years, part-time) programme of study.
Taught and thesis elements
3.
Students are required to study modules worth 180 credits, of which 20 credits must be obtained from taught modules at Level 4 or from the Research Training Programme run by the Graduate School or other units offering generic training within the University, or from within any other generic training courses run within individual Schools. The remaining 160 credits must be obtained from a thesis module at Level 4. Any taught modules and research training taken must be clearly cognate with the student’s research topic. Supervision while undertaking the thesis module will be as set out in the module specification and in line with the requirements for supervision contained in the regulations for research degrees.
4.
The University’s Quality and Standards Committee has approved a variation in the number or taught credits required for this programme, as permitted under Regulation 4. of the University’s Regulations for the degree of Master of Research (MRes).
Transfer to PhD
5.
A candidate shall not be permitted to count the same period of research for both the degree of Master of Research (MRes) and the degree of PhD.  However a candidate for the MRes degree may, after a period of not less than nine months study for the MRes and prior to the submission of the thesis, with the approval of the supervisor and Head of School (or equivalent), submit an application to the University for permission to be registered as a candidate for the degree of PhD instead of a Master of Research.  The period of registration for the degree of PhD should normally be three years (and not less than two years) full-time from the initial date of registration for the MRes.
Assessment
Includes:
module specifications; submitting thesis before end of registered study; viva voce examinations
6.
The assessment of all modules is as set out in the specifications for those modules. In regard to the thesis module, the maximum word length of the thesis is 35,000 words. The maximum word limit is inclusive of appendices, footnotes, tables but not the bibliography. The Thesis should embody the result of the candidate’s advanced study and research.
7.
Students are required to submit their thesis prior to the end of the period of registered study. Two copies of the thesis should be submitted to Student Services or equivalent (in a form prescribed by the University), who will forward the thesis to the Examiners. The thesis should not, whether in the same or a different form, have been submitted to this or any other University for the award of any degree.
8.
The thesis must be the result of the student’s own work. The requirement does not preclude a student obtaining limited assistance with proof-reading and with the routine collection and/or processing of data under guidelines and instructions clearly devised by the student. When such help is obtained it should be with the prior approval of the supervisor who must be satisfied that the spirit of the 'own work' requirement is not breached.
9.
The thesis is examined by both an External Examiner and an Internal Examiner appointed under the regulations governing the assessment of research degrees, who should provide independent reports on the thesis, indicating whether the thesis module has been passed; and also whether a viva voce examination is necessary. Where a viva voce examination is required by the examiners, this should be conducted in line with the relevant regulations for MPhil degrees.
For more information about the Viva voce examinations, please consult the following:
Viva voce examinations
Outcomes of examination
Includes:
award of degree; where a student obtains a fail mark or failed thesis or training credits; nottingham etheses service
10.
The degree is awarded where all taught modules and training credits and the thesis module have been passed. The pass mark for all taught modules is 50%. Training credits will be assessed on a pass/fail basis.
11.
Where a student obtains a fail mark in a taught module, or fails the thesis module or training credits, the student has one further opportunity to pass those modules. All reassessments must be completed within one year of the end of the student's period of registered study.
12.
The qualification awarded to the student will include the subject of study undertaken as notified to the student at the time of admission.
13.
Successful candidates will be eligible to graduate once their thesis has been uploaded to the University’s etheses service and approved by the Internal Examiner or, in cases where there are two external examiners, the lead External Examiner. For more information, please consult the following:
Nottingham eTheses
Students from countries that are not familiar with the MRes qualification may, alternatively, be awarded a MA or MSc by Research in order not to disadvantage those students.  The regulations for these awards will, though, be exactly the same as for the MRes. This will also be permitted, with QSC approval, where required by professional, regulatory or accrediting bodies.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-mres-pharmacy-sept20.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Pharmacy
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Pharmacy from September 2020, including admissions, examination and award of degree information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Pharmacy - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Pharmacy
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Pharmacy from September 2020, including admissions, examination and award of degree information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview and regulations
The regulations for the MRes portfolio in Pharmacy are those which govern the University of Nottingham MRes available here:
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) from September 2019
Except where the following sections modify or supplement them
Admissions requirement
1.
Requirements for admission to a research degree are set out in the University of Nottingham’s Quality Manual in the section entitled Admissions. For more information, please consult the following:
Admissions
Programme of study
2.
Students will be admitted to a one year, full-time (two years, part-time) programme of study.
Taught and thesis elements
3.
Students are required to study modules worth 180 credits, of which 20 credits must be obtained from taught modules at Level 4 or from the Research Training Programme run by the Graduate School or other units offering generic training within the University, or from within any other generic training courses run within individual Schools. The remaining 160 credits must be obtained from a thesis module at Level 4. Any taught modules and research training taken must be clearly cognate with the student’s research topic. Supervision while undertaking the thesis module will be as set out in the module specification and in line with the requirements for supervision contained in the regulations for research degrees.
4.
The University’s Quality and Standards Committee has approved a variation in the number or taught credits required for this programme, as permitted under Regulation 4. of the University’s Regulations for the degree of Master of Research (MRes).
Transfer to PhD
5.
A candidate shall not be permitted to count the same period of research for both the degree of Master of Research (MRes) and the degree of PhD.  However a candidate for the MRes degree may, after a period of not less than nine months study for the MRes and prior to the submission of the thesis, with the approval of the supervisor and Head of School (or equivalent), submit an application to the University for permission to be registered as a candidate for the degree of PhD instead of a Master of Research.  The period of registration for the degree of PhD should normally be three years (and not less than two years) full-time from the initial date of registration for the MRes.
Assessment
Includes:
module specifications; submitting thesis before end of registered study; viva voce examinations
6.
The assessment of all modules is as set out in the specifications for those modules. In regard to the thesis module, the maximum word length of the thesis is 35,000 words. The maximum word limit is inclusive of appendices, footnotes, tables but not the bibliography. The Thesis should embody the result of the candidate’s advanced study and research.
7.
Students are required to submit their thesis prior to the end of the period of registered study. Two copies of the thesis should be submitted to Student Services or equivalent (in a form prescribed by the University), who will forward the thesis to the Examiners. The thesis should not, whether in the same or a different form, have been submitted to this or any other University for the award of any degree.
8.
The thesis must be the result of the student’s own work. The requirement does not preclude a student obtaining limited assistance with proof-reading and with the routine collection and/or processing of data under guidelines and instructions clearly devised by the student. When such help is obtained it should be with the prior approval of the supervisor who must be satisfied that the spirit of the 'own work' requirement is not breached.
9.
The thesis is examined by both an External Examiner and an Internal Examiner appointed under the regulations governing the assessment of research degrees, who should provide independent reports on the thesis, indicating whether the thesis module has been passed; and also whether a viva voce examination is necessary. Where a viva voce examination is required by the examiners, this should be conducted in line with the relevant regulations for MPhil degrees.
For more information about the Viva voce examinations, please consult the following:
Viva voce examinations
Outcomes of examination
Includes:
award of degree; where a student obtains a fail mark or failed thesis or training credits; nottingham etheses service
10.
The degree is awarded where all taught modules and training credits and the thesis module have been passed. The pass mark for all taught modules is 50%. Training credits will be assessed on a pass/fail basis.
11.
Where a student obtains a fail mark in a taught module, or fails the thesis module or training credits, the student has one further opportunity to pass those modules. All reassessments must be completed within one year of the end of the student's period of registered study.
12.
The qualification awarded to the student will include the subject of study undertaken as notified to the student at the time of admission.
13.
Successful candidates will be eligible to graduate once their thesis has been uploaded to the University’s etheses service and approved by the Internal Examiner or, in cases where there are two external examiners, the lead External Examiner.  For more information, please consult the following:
Nottingham eTheses
Students from countries that are not familiar with the MRes qualification may, alternatively, be awarded a MA or MSc by Research in order not to disadvantage those students.  The regulations for these awards will, though, be exactly the same as for the MRes. This will also be permitted, with QSC approval, where required by professional, regulatory or accrediting bodies.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-mres-life-sci-sept20.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Life Sciences
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Life Sciences from September 2020, including admissions, examination and award of degree information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Life Sciences - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Life Sciences
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Life Sciences from September 2020, including admissions, examination and award of degree information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview and regulations
The regulations for the MRes portfolio in Life Sciences are those which govern the University of Nottingham MRes available here:
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) from September 2019
Except where the following sections modify or supplement them
Admissions requirement
1.
Requirements for admission to a research degree are set out in the University of Nottingham’s Quality Manual in the section entitled Admissions. For more information, please consult the following:
Admissions
Programme of study
2.
Students will be admitted to a one year, full-time (two years, part-time) programme of study.
Taught and thesis elements
3.
Students are required to study modules worth 180 credits, of which 20 credits must be obtained from taught modules at Level 4 or from the Research Training Programme run by the Graduate School or other units offering generic training within the University, or from within any other generic training courses run within individual Schools. The remaining 160 credits must be obtained from a thesis module at Level 4. Any taught modules and research training taken must be clearly cognate with the student’s research topic. Supervision while undertaking the thesis module will be as set out in the module specification and in line with the requirements for supervision contained in the regulations for research degrees.
4.
The University’s Quality and Standards Committee has approved a variation in the number or taught credits required for this programme, as permitted under Regulation 4. of the University’s Regulations for the degree of Master of Research (MRes).
Transfer to PhD
5.
A candidate shall not be permitted to count the same period of research for both the degree of Master of Research (MRes) and the degree of PhD.  However a candidate for the MRes degree may, after a period of not less than nine months study for the MRes and prior to the submission of the thesis, with the approval of the supervisor and Head of School (or equivalent), submit an application to the University for permission to be registered as a candidate for the degree of PhD instead of a Master of Research.  The period of registration for the degree of PhD should normally be three years (and not less than two years) full-time from the initial date of registration for the MRes.
Assessment
Includes:
module specifications; submitting thesis before end of registered study; viva voce examinations
6.
The assessment of all modules is as set out in the specifications for those modules. In regard to the thesis module, the maximum word length of the thesis is 35,000 words. The maximum word limit is inclusive of appendices, footnotes, tables but not the bibliography. The Thesis should embody the result of the candidate’s advanced study and research.
7.
Students are required to submit their thesis prior to the end of the period of registered study. Two copies of the thesis should be submitted to Student Services or equivalent (in a form prescribed by the University), who will forward the thesis to the Examiners. The thesis should not, whether in the same or a different form, have been submitted to this or any other University for the award of any degree.
8.
The thesis must be the result of the student’s own work. The requirement does not preclude a student obtaining limited assistance with proof-reading and with the routine collection and/or processing of data under guidelines and instructions clearly devised by the student. When such help is obtained it should be with the prior approval of the supervisor who must be satisfied that the spirit of the 'own work' requirement is not breached.
9.
The thesis is examined by both an External Examiner and an Internal Examiner appointed under the regulations governing the assessment of research degrees, who should provide independent reports on the thesis, indicating whether the thesis module has been passed; and also whether a viva voce examination is necessary. Where a viva voce examination is required by the examiners, this should be conducted in line with the relevant regulations for MPhil degrees.
For more information about the Viva voce examinations, please consult the following:
Viva voce examinations
Outcomes of examination
Includes:
award of degree; where a student obtains a fail mark or failed thesis or training credits; nottingham etheses service
10.
The degree is awarded where all taught modules and training credits and the thesis module have been passed. The pass mark for all taught modules is 50%. Training credits will be assessed on a pass/fail basis.
11.
Where a student obtains a fail mark in a taught module, or fails the thesis module or training credits, the student has one further opportunity to pass those modules. All reassessments must be completed within one year of the end of the student's period of registered study.
12.
The qualification awarded to the student will include the subject of study undertaken as notified to the student at the time of admission.
13.
Successful candidates will be eligible to graduate once their thesis has been uploaded to the University’s etheses service and approved by the Internal Examiner or, in cases where there are two external examiners, the lead External Examiner.  For more information, please consult the following:
Nottingham eTheses
Students from countries that are not familiar with the MRes qualification may, alternatively, be awarded a MA or MSc by Research in order not to disadvantage those students.  The regulations for these awards will, though, be exactly the same as for the MRes. This will also be permitted, with QSC approval, where required by professional, regulatory or accrediting bodies.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-mres-chem-sept20.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Chemistry
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Chemistry from September 2020, including admissions, examination and award of degree information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Chemistry - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Chemistry
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) in Chemistry from September 2020, including admissions, examination and award of degree information. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview and regulations
Standard Regulations which govern the University of Nottingham MRes available here:
Regulations for the Degree of Master of Research (MRes) from September 2019
Except where the following modify or supplement them.
Admissions requirement
1.
Requirements for admission to a research degree are set out in the University of Nottingham’s Quality Manual in the section entitled Admissions. For more information, please consult the following:
Admissions
Programme of study
2.
Students will be admitted to a one year, full-time (two years, part-time) programme of study.
Taught and thesis elements
3.
Students are required to study modules worth 180 credits; between zero and a maximum of 60 credits may be obtained from taught modules at Level 4 or from the Research Training Programme run by the Researcher Academy (formerly the Graduate School) or other units offering generic training within the University, or from within any other generic training courses run within individual Schools. The remaining 120-180 credits must be obtained from a thesis module at Level 4. Any taught modules and research training taken must be clearly cognate with the student’s research topic. Supervision while undertaking the thesis module will be as set out in the module specification and in line with the requirements for supervision contained in the regulations for research degrees.
4.
The University’s Quality and Standards Committee has approved a variation in the number or taught credits required for this programme, as permitted under Regulation 4. of the University’s Regulations for the degree of Master of Research (MRes).
Transfer to PhD
5.
A candidate shall not be permitted to count the same period of research for both the degree of Master of Research (MRes) and the degree of PhD.  However a candidate for the MRes degree may, after a period of not less than nine months study for the MRes and prior to the submission of the thesis, with the approval of the supervisor and Head of School (or equivalent), submit an application to the University for permission to be registered as a candidate for the degree of PhD instead of a Master of Research.  The period of registration for the degree of PhD should normally be three years (and not less than two years) full-time from the initial date of registration for the MRes.
Assessment
Includes:
module specifications; submitting thesis before end of registered study; viva voce examinations
6.
The assessment of all modules is as set out in the specifications for those modules. In regard to the thesis module, the maximum word length of the thesis is adjusted in accordance with the number of taught credits undertaken: such that a thesis module 120 credits should not exceed 25,000 words, a thesis of 140 credits should not exceed 30,000 words, a thesis of 160 credits should not exceed 35,000 words and a thesis of 180 credits should not exceed 40,000 words. The maximum word limit is inclusive of appendices, footnotes, tables but not the bibliography. The Thesis should embody the result of the candidate’s advanced study and research.
7.
Students are required to submit their thesis prior to the end of the period of registered study. Two copies of the thesis should be submitted to Student Services or equivalent (in a form prescribed by the University), who will forward the thesis to the Examiners. The thesis should not, whether in the same or a different form, have been submitted to this or any other University for the award of any degree.
8.
The thesis must be the result of the student’s own work. The requirement does not preclude a student obtaining limited assistance with proof-reading and with the routine collection and/or processing of data under guidelines and instructions clearly devised by the student. When such help is obtained it should be with the prior approval of the supervisor who must be satisfied that the spirit of the 'own work' requirement is not breached.
9.
The thesis is examined by both an External Examiner and an Internal Examiner appointed under the regulations governing the assessment of research degrees, who should provide independent reports on the thesis, indicating whether the thesis module has been passed; and also whether a viva voce examination is necessary. Where a viva voce examination is required by the examiners, this should be conducted in line with the relevant regulations for MPhil degrees.
For more information about the Viva voce examinations, please consult the following:
Viva voce examinations
Outcomes of examination
Includes:
award of degree; where a student obtains a fail mark or failed thesis or training credits; nottingham etheses service
10.
The degree is awarded where all taught modules and training credits and the thesis module have been passed. The pass mark for all taught modules is 50%, but marks of 40%-49% can be compensated in up to 20 credits if the overall average for the taught modules taken is 50% or over. Training credits will be assessed on a pass/fail basis.
11.
Where a student obtains a fail mark in a taught module, or fails the thesis module or training credits, the student has one further opportunity to pass those modules. All reassessments must be completed within one year of the end of the student's period of registered study.
12.
The qualification awarded to the student will include the subject of study undertaken as notified to the student at the time of admission.
13.
Successful candidates will be eligible to graduate once their thesis has been uploaded to the University’s etheses service and approved by the Internal Examiner or, in cases where there are two external examiners, the lead External Examiner.
For more information, please consult the following:
Nottingham eTheses
Students from countries that are not familiar with the MRes qualification may, alternatively, be awarded a MA or MSc by Research in order not to disadvantage those students.  The regulations for these awards will, though, be exactly the same as for the MRes. This will also be permitted, with QSC approval, where required by professional, regulatory or accrediting bodies.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
23 October 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/registration-and-attendance/regulations-on-employment-during-studies.aspx
Header: Regulations on student employment during studies
Intro: This page contains information around students undertaking employment alongside their studies. This information may be of interest to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Regulations on student employment during studies - The University of NottinghamRegulations on student employment during studies
This page contains information around students undertaking employment alongside their studies. This information may be of interest to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Please note that students in the UK on a Student Route visa are also affected by the University's Policy on Immigration Sponsorship. Where academic policies and immigration policies seem to be contradictory, immigration policies will take precedence. For more information, please consult the following:
Immigration sponsorship
1.0 Purpose
During periods when students are expected to be engaging with their programme, the prime focus of students must be on their studies.
2.0 Key Principles
Whilst the University realises that students may find it necessary to work in order to support themselves, they must not arrange any employment or other activity that will cause them to be unable to attend and engage with required activities or undertake required private study.
Any students who are considering part-time employment are advised to discuss their position with their tutor before committing to that course of action.
Apprentices who are part time students on a programme designed to integrate with, and be supported by their contractual employment are expected to maintain supportive employment for the duration of their studies.
Notwithstanding this, the University recognises the value of practical experience as part of the overall University experience and understands that students may wish to take up opportunities that will enhance their future employability. When considering any employment opportunities students must bear in mind the possible impact on their studies and only accept employment that is manageable alongside their student workload.
It must be noted that examinations may take place on Saturdays during the published examination periods and that reassessment examinations (for those required to take them) are normally held during August.
The University has a range of financial support packages that students may be eligible to access. For more information, see the link within 3.0 Related Regulations, Policies and Prcedures.
Extenuating circumstances
The requirements of employment or other activities are not considered to be an acceptable extenuating circumstance. For more information about extenuating circumstances, please consult Extenuating circumstances pages directly, linked below.
2.1 International students on the Points Based System: Student route
International students on Points Based System: Student route are not normally allowed to work for more than 20 hours per week during term-times or required periods of engagement and, if they were to do so, they would be in breach of the immigration regulations and potentially subject to cancellation of their visa.
Advice for international students is available from the Visa and Immigration team within Student Services. For more information, please consult the following:
VISA and Immigration Support
2.2 Differences at University of Nottingham Ningbo China
Includes:
contact details
Differences may be present in the guidance and/or regulations concerning student employment during studies between the UK campus (UNUK) and University of Nottingham Ningbo China (UNNC).
For more information about the guidance and/or regulations concerning student employment during studies at UNNC, please email:
international@nottingham.edu.cn
3.0 Related Regulations, Policies and Procedures
Student services - Financial support
Visa and Immigration Support
Support packages
Extenuating circumstances
4.0 Version Control Table
Version Control Table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with the new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework, based on content last modified on 5th December 2022
QSC
July 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
31 July 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/registration-and-attendance/guidance-non-registered-statuses.aspx
Header: Guidance on non-registered statuses
Intro: This page provides information on non-registered statuses and in what situations this might be applicable. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Guidance on non-registered statuses - The University of NottinghamGuidance on non-registered statuses
This page provides information on non-registered statuses and in what situations this might be applicable. Its content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview and Scope
There are a number of policies and processes within the University that might result in a student not being registered with the University although a relationship with the University still exists and they are expected at some time to continue or complete their programme. This content is relevant to staff and students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses
Please note that students in the UK on a Student Route visa are also affected by the University's Policy on Immigration Sponsorship. Where academic policies and immigration policies seem to be contradictory, immigration policies will take precedence. For more information, please consult the following:
Immigration sponsorship
1.0 Purpose
This page provides information on non-registered statuses and in what situations this might be applicable.
2.0 Key Principles
2.1 Re-registration
Where relevant, the student is expected to formally re-register when the circumstances below no longer apply. In order to re-register, a student must have:
A satisfactory academic status
Settled any debts owed to the University
An appropriate immigration status
For more information about fees and financial support, please consult the finance and finantial support pages linked below:
2.2 Suspension of registered status
In the following circumstances, a student will not be registered and will be subject to the specified conditions. Depending on the length of suspension, such students may not have access to library or IT services. However, they are still subject to relevant regulations of the University, such as Traffic Regulations, the Regulations for Library and Computer Use and the University’s Code of Discipline for Students.
2.2.1 General
Students whose registration status is suspended for any of the following reasons are not entitled to attend any teaching or take any assessments and will not pay tuition fees whilst unregistered.
If the student has opted for a voluntary interruption of study
If the student has suspended their study as part of a transfer of course process
If the student is suspended under the University’s Attendance and Engagement Regulations
If the University has required the student to suspend as part of a Fitness to Practise procedure
If the student is suspended on grounds of health and safety
If the student is suspended under the Code of Discipline for Students
If the student is suspended under the Academic Misconduct procedure.
Students who are ‘false starters’ – that is, they started a programme but within two weeks of starting requested a deferral of entry to the next session
Students who are in breach of any legal requirements (such as immigration requirements) so that they are unable to appropriately engage with the University
2.2.2 UK-specific conditions (Points Based System: Student route)
in the UK, students are not eligible for Council Tax relief nor for student support funding. Students who are in the UK under the Points Based System: Student route visa will be required to leave the UK whilst their registration status is suspended.
2.2.3 Students taking external assessments
Students who are not registered for the following reason will be subject to the same conditions as those above, except that they are permitted to take assessments for which they have been entered (for which a fee may be payable depending on individual circumstances). This applies when:
the student is taking assessments or reassessments as an external candidate under the University’s study regulations
UK specific conditions: students on Points Based System: Student route visas must seek advice from the Visa and Immigration Team about their legal status in the UK.
2.2.4 Debtors to the University
Students whose registration status is suspended for the following reason will be subject to the same conditions as those above except that in addition, they will not have access to any IT, library or door access facilities. This applies when:
the University has required the student to suspend under the University’s Fees Regulations because of a debt that is owed to the University.
2.2.5 Students who are engaged in study
The following types of student are also not registered with the University although they remain engaged in their study with the University:
Students who have an extension to a submission date that takes them past their normal end of study date
Students on some partnerships where they are not required to be registered at UofN for certain periods (please refer to related MoA)
Research students who are in their thesis pending period who have chosen not to
register
with the University
Research students who have submitted their thesis and are still undergoing the examination process.
Such students have access to all usual University facilities and all regulations apply.
2.2.6 Fees
For more information about fees, please consult the following:
Registry and Academic Affairs - fees and finance
2.3 Completion of studies
A student ceases to be a registered student once they have completed their studies. However, until their award is conferred (if applicable), they will continue to have relevant engagement as a student of the University.
For the majority of students with standard start dates and periods of study, the usual times that students are deemed to have completed their studies will be as follows:
Undergraduate students: the last day of the final semester of their period of study
Postgraduate Taught students: the last day of September
Postgraduate Research students: The day that the thesis uploaded to the University's e-theses service has been approved by the Internal Examiner or, in cases where there are two external examiners, the lead External Examiner.
In addition, please be aware of the following:
For different start dates or programmes of non-standard lengths, the completion of studies date will be extrapolated from the above standard dates.
Where a student’s programme is terminated, the date of completion of studies will be the date on which the recommendation is processed.
Where a student withdraws, the last date of attendance will be the date on which they cease to become a student.
3.0 Related Policies
Voluntary interruption of study
Changes of taught course
Regulations governing attendance and engagement
Fitness to practise procedures
Withdrawal on the grounds of health and safety
Code of Discipline for Students
Policy on academic misconduct
Finance
Registry and Academic Affairs - Financial support
4.0 Version Control Table
Version Control Table
Version Number
Purpose/Change
Approving Committee
Date
1.0
Reformatted to align with the new University of Nottingham Policy Management Framework based on the content last modified on the 18th November 2024
QSC
July 2024
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
31 July 2024||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-dclinpsy-presept19.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) before September 2019
Intro: This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) before September 2019. Its content is only relevant to students who commenced their studies before this date.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) before September 2019 - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) before September 2019
This page contains the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) before September 2019. Its content is only relevant to students who commenced their studies before this date.Overview
The regulations for the Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) are those which govern the University of Nottingham PhD here at the University and at the University of Lincoln, except where the following section modify or supplement them.
For more information about the University's regulations, please consult the following:
Research programme regulations
University of Lincoln - Research Degrees Regulations for MA and MSc by Research MPhil and PhD 2014-15
1. Admission requirements
1.1
A candidate for the Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) degree must
(a)
Be a graduate of this or any other approved university holding a Bachelors degree in Psychology or an equivalent subject recognised by the British Psychological Society as conferring Graduate Basis for Chartership. This will normally be a first or upper second class honours but candidates with a lower second-class honours degree or other equivalent qualification may be considered if they have a postgraduate degree at Masters level or higher. The only entry to the programme is at the beginning of Year 1. There is no provision for advanced entry based on Recognition of Other Learning (ROL) or ROEL.
(b)
Meet the essential characteristics of the NHS person specification for a Clinical Psychologist in Training and course specification.
(c)
Have the personal and intellectual resources to pursue a challenging and demanding research oriented programme.
(d)
Have previous supervised practical experience relevant to clinical training.
(e)
The programme covers a wide geographical area and teaching is provided at both the University of Nottingham and the University of Lincoln (the universities). It is therefore a requirement that students are able to make their own personal arrangements to travel to and from the universities and their respective work placements. Students should expect to have to travel for at least 3 hours a day (e.g. between universities and from base to placement).
(f)
Candidates will be subject to an interview process and must complete Disclosure and Barring Scheme checks and health checks for acceptability as an NHS employee.
(g)
Candidates whose first language is not English and who have not previously studied in Higher Education in English, must as a minimum, have one of the following:
A British Council IELTS overall minimum score of 7.5 with no element below 7.0, achieved no more than 2 years prior to admission.
Pearson Test of English Academic 73 (minimum 67).
CELE pre-sessional course final assessment of “Pass with High Distinction”
2. Course of study
2.1
A candidate for the degree of DClinPsy must have pursued at one of the universities a full-time course of study comprising a taught component, clinical placements and one research project. Completion of the DClinPsy programme requires a minimum of 3 years of full-time supervised study.
2.2
The universities’  Regulations for Taught Masters Degrees, Postgraduate Diploma and Postgraduate Certificate courses shall apply with regard to satisfactory progression on the taught element of the degree.  All modules on the programme are compulsory and non-compensatable. The Regulations may be accessed from either the following document or link:
University of Lincoln - Taught Postgraduate Regulations 2014/2015
Taught Masters Degrees, Postgraduate Diploma and Postgraduate Certificate courses with effect from 2016-17
2.3
Students on the DClinPsy programme are called ‘trainees’. Each trainee on the programme is registered at both the University of Lincoln and the University of Nottingham, and on successful completion shall be awarded the degree by one or other of the universities.
2.4
The University of Nottingham’s Fitness to Practise procedures, as set out at Annex B, shall apply to all trainees.  Annex C - G specify which of the two universities’ regulations shall be followed in respect of Extenuating Circumstances; Student Complaints; Academic Offences (UoL)/Misconduct (UoN); Academic Appeals; and Student Discipline.
3. Programme Structure
3.1
Structure of Awards
The standard modules in the DClinPsy award are multiples of 5 credit points, as appropriate to the level of study, with 1 credit point equating to 10 notional learning hours. The modules will be at Master (M) or Doctoral (D) level according to Table 1 below:
Table 1 - DClinPsy credit structure
Award
Tariff (level)
Notional Learning Hours
The Doctorate in Clinical Psychology
540 (M/D)
5,400
Masters Degree in Applied Psychology (available as an exit award only)
180 (M/D) These credits contribute towards the credits for the award of the doctorate
1,800
3.2
The programme shall be structured according to the following principles:
140 credits of taught provision
120 credits of placement - taught provision
150 credits of placement - research provision resulting in production of Placement Research Portfolio  (maximum 15,000 words plus appendices, etc)
130 credits of research project provision resulting in production of Research Project Portfolio (maximum 45,000 words plus appendices, etc)
It shall have 260 credits (8 modules) designated as taught and 280 credits (6 modules) designated as research.
It shall have 100 credits at M level; the remaining 440 credits being at D level.
A description of the programme structure is at Annex A.
4. Assessment
4.1
Compensation cannot be offered for failure of any component within a module.
4.2
All placement assessments are graded on a pass or fail basis.
4.3
Where no formal extension has been agreed, a late submission will be deemed a failed submission.
4.4
All placements are assessed by the trainee’s supervisor, Clinical Tutor and, where appropriate, Co-Director (Clinical Practice). Supervisor assessments for taught placements are regarded as recommendations to the Programme Directors with the final decision to pass or fail the placement made by the Board of Examiners.
4.5
Supervisor assessments for the research placements are regarded as recommendations for consideration as part of the research annual review process (at the University of Nottingham) or to the College Research Degrees Board (at the University of Lincoln); the research placements are also examined by the research examiners at viva voce alongside the final Research Project who then makes a recommendation to the final Board of Examiners as part of the final examination process for the degree.
5. Reassessment opportunities
5.1
Trainees who have failed modules shall be offered one opportunity to be reassessed with the following exceptions:
5.1.1
Taught modules assessed by a Practice Based Learning Assessment (PBL):
Only one PBL module may be reassessed. If a trainee fails one component or more of a second PBL module assessed by a PBL assessment, no further reassessment will be allowed and the trainee will not be permitted to continue on the programme.
5.1.2
Placement modules:
Placements are assessed by a combination of case studies (written and oral) and clinical assessments. Trainees will be permitted one opportunity to resit one placement module. If a trainee fails one component or more of a second placement module, no further reassessment will be permitted and the trainee will not be permitted to continue on the programme.
5.1.2.1
Trainees who require funding to re-sit a placement failed by the clinical assessment will need the agreement of NHS Commissioners to continue funding an extension of the trainee’s employment and studies during the course of the three-year programme (see below).
5.1.2.2
Where a trainee requires an extension of the training contract, the University may be asked to confirm that the trainee is expected to satisfactorily complete and is suitable to work as a registered Clinical Psychologist, adhering to the expectations of NHS employment practice.
6. Board of Examiners
6.1
The Board of Examiners shall have responsibility for assessment in respect to the taught elements of the programme (see programme structure above) which will feed into the considerations of the College Research Degrees Board (at the University of Lincoln)/Research annual review panel (at the University of Nottingham) who shall have responsibility for assessment of the research elements of the programme and confirming progression.
6.2
Determination of a student’s entitlement to conferment of the final award shall be the responsibility of the Board of Examiners.
6.3
All meetings of the Board of Examiners are deemed to be held jointly between the universities and no restrictions on the exchange of information shall apply.
6.4
In recognition of the link between academic progression and employment status the programme will communicate directly with trainees who are in danger of programme failure and thereby of losing their employment.
7. Progression
7.1
Taught Components
7.1.1
In order to progress through subsequent years trainees shall have passed all the required elements of the taught modules at each stage of the programme.
7.1.2
Research Components (see programme structure above).
7.1.3
Each candidate will have at least two academic supervisors for the Research Modules that comprise the Research Project Portfolio.
7.1.4
Progress records shall be confirmed by the College Research Degrees Board at the University of Lincoln, or the annual review panel at the University of Nottingham, on at least an annual basis. The Progress Board/panel shall take account of internal marking of taught and research modules and performance on placement (supervisor report and case studies) to satisfy itself of satisfactory progress.
7.1.5
Upon receipt of the progress record, the trainee transcript and any additional information that it has required, the Research Degrees Board/annual review panel shall either:
a)
Confirm that the enrolment of the trainee shall continue or
b)
Confirm that the enrolment of the trainee shall continue and the student must be reassessed in failed elements of the annual review
c)
Confirm that the trainee’s course of studies be terminated and the award of the MSc in Applied Psychology be considered or
d)
Recommend that the trainee’s course of studies be terminated and no award be made
8 Submission of research project portfolio and examination
8.1
The candidate shall submit a Research Project Portfolio (Volume 1) for examination, which shall comprise of a draft journal paper, an extended paper (including an updated literature review and extended methods, analysis, results and discussion sections), a critical reflection and a poster.
8.2
The Research Project Portfolio shall be of a standard to indicate the creation and interpretation of new knowledge through original research, which extends the forefront of the discipline.
8.3
The work reported shall be of a quality to satisfy peer review and merit publication in a scientific journal. Volume 2 (comprising placement case studies and service related research) must also be submitted before the Research Project Portfolio can be sent for examination.
8.4
Both Volume 1 and Volume 2 must be submitted before the student is recommended for examination.
9. Outcomes of portfolio examination
9.1
The Examiners may recommend the following outcomes of examination for candidates:
Pass the research component of the degree
Pass the research component of the degree subject to minor corrections within one month
Pass the research component of the degree subject to minor amendments to be completed within three months
Require the candidate to attend for a second viva voce examination and resubmit the same portfolio (which may be subject to minor amendments to be completed within three months), or Resubmit the portfolio in a revised form within twelve months with/without attending a second viva voce examination
Fail the research component of the degree and no further opportunity for resubmission
10. Doctoral Award
10.1
The degree of DClinPsy will be conferred on candidates who
a)
Have successfully completed the taught component of the programme and
b)
Have satisfied the Examiners as to the standard of the Research Project Portfolio and
c)
Have achieved all standards of proficiency required by the HCPC and core competencies required by the BPS and
d)
Have supplied all raw data for the research portfolio to the school administrators and
e)
Have obtained confirmation from the primary research supervisor that they have prepared a submission ready journal paper and
f)
Are not subject to any Fitness to Practise Proceedings.
10.2
The DClinPsy degree is awarded as a simple Pass, without classification or distinction/merit categories.
11. Award of Masters in Applied Psychology
11.1
A candidate for the degree of DClinPsy who achieves less than 540 but 180 or more credits may be eligible for the award of Master of Science Degree in Applied Psychology. To be awarded this MSc trainees must have successfully completed a total of 180 Level (M, D) credits with at least 60 credits from research modules.
11.2
There is no provision for the award of a Postgraduate Certificate or Postgraduate Diploma.
Annex A - Programme structure
Table of programme structure
Year
Module Acronym
Title of Module
Level
Semester
Credits
Module Type
1
PRS
Professional Skills
7
1
40
Academic
ICI
Individual Client Interventions
1 & 2
40
FPA
Foundation Placement A: (placement activity)
7
1
Essential placement activity not credit rated
Placement
FPB
Foundation Placement B: (Placement activity and case study)
2
Essential placement activity not credit rated
Case study 20 credits
ERP
Research Ethics & Design
8
1
80
Research
Research Systematic Literature Review
2
2
LSD
Lifespan Development
8
1
20
Academic
ISO
Integration & Specialist Options
2
40
SYP
Second Year Placement – A
8
1
Essential placement activity not credit rated
Case study 20 credits
Placement
Second Year Placement – B
2
BRM
Data collection & analysis, APEs
8
1 & 2
100
Research
3
BRP
Research Portfolio and Viva
8
1 & 2
100
Research
FGI
Families, Groups & Indirect Work
8
1
20
Academic
SOS
Systems and Organisations
2
20
TYP
Third Year Placement - Specialist
8
1 or 2
Essential placement activity not credit rated
Two case studies 40 credits
Placement
Third Year Placement - Final
1 or 2
Annex B - Extenuating circumstances
The Extenuating Circumstances regulations of the University of Lincoln shall apply to this programme. These regulations can be accessed via:
University of Lincoln - Extenuating Circumstances
Extensions and Extenuating Circumstances Policy
As Health Service professional and full-time NHS employees, trainees have an obligation to be aware of any impairment to their fitness to work. This extends to academic work and the completion of assessments and assignments. If the submission of any assignment is likely to be adversely affected through illness or other significant personal circumstances outside their control, trainees must ask for an extension in advance of the submission date using the Extension Request Form.
Extensions of up to two weeks can be agreed by the module convenor/module coordinator.
Extensions of more than two weeks require the approval of the Co-director (Practice Learning) for Clinical Practice Reports or of the Co-director (Academic and Research) for all other assignments.
Trainees who require a prolonged extension would normally be required to interrupt their studies.
Where trainees are aware of a disability or long-term medical condition, or other circumstances that are expected to have an impact on their performance in assessment, they should make their Personal Tutor aware of their disability or long-term medical condition at the earliest possible opportunity so that appropriate arrangements can be put in place.
Where trainees are aware of circumstances beyond their control that might adversely affect the submission of their Research Project Portfolio, they should inform their academic supervisor at the earliest opportunity, so that alternative hand-in dates can be agreed.
Claims for extenuating circumstances after the submission date for an assignment has passed would normally raise a concern about the trainee’s fitness to practise, as they should have been aware of their impaired performance and requested an extension. In such a case, the module convenor / module co-ordinator would normally complete a Concern Form (see Fitness to Practise Procedure). Trainees who wish claim extenuating circumstances should complete and sign the relevant form and submit it to the Extenuating Circumstances Board of the University of Lincoln.
The Extenuating Circumstances Board will consider the claim and supporting documentation at their next regular meeting and determine whether extenuating circumstances obtain and whether the trainee’s reasons for not having sought an extension are valid. The Extenuating Circumstances Board will communicate its decision to the Chair of the Trent DClinPsy Board of Examiners. The decision whether to allow a resubmission of an assignment because of extenuating circumstances rests with the Board of Examiners.
Annex C - Fitness to practise
The Fitness to Practise regulations of the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences at the University of Nottingham shall apply to this programme, subject to the following adjustments:
The term ‘trainee’ shall be used throughout in preference to that of ‘student’.
Concerns that a trainee may not be fit to practise Clinical Psychology shall be made to the Programme Co-Director at the trainee’s degree-awarding university. References to ‘the head of studies’ shall be read as referring to the relevant Programme Co-Director.
In the section headed ‘Investigations’, the reference to “the University’s Occupational Health Service” shall be read as referring to the trainee’s employer’s Occupational Health Service.
These regulations can be accessed via:
University of Lincoln - Fitness to Practise
Registration, attendance and study
The current form of the regulations, as they apply to the programme are as follows:
1.     Initiation of the Procedure
1.1.
Any concerns that a trainee may have acted in such a way or may suffer from a health problem which may render that trainee a person not fit to be admitted to and practise Clinical Psychology should be disclosed to the Programme Co- Director at the trainee’s degree awarding university.
1.2.
The disclosure should normally be made in writing using the concern form. In cases where the initial disclosure is not in the concern form format e.g. notification of criminal conviction, then the relevant Co-director should ensure that a concern form containing the disclosure is completed. The person making the disclosure must identify themselves; disclosures which are raised anonymously will not normally be considered. In exceptional circumstances the discloser’s identity may be permitted to remain confidential.
1.3.
The raising of a concern form does not usually indicate a fitness to practise issue. However, the existence of multiple concern forms may show a pattern which does indicate a fitness to practise issue. Therefore on the receipt of an individual concern form which on its own does not raise a fitness to practise issue the Co- directors, should jointly review whether other concern forms have been raised, which when all considered together raise issues regarding the trainee’s fitness to practise, e.g. professional behaviour.
1.4.
Where there are concerns that are serious then a trainee may be excluded from clinical placements by their Clinical Tutor on advice of the Co-directors. Some examples of a serious concern would include, but not as an exclusive list, situations where
patients may be placed at risk or
the profession might be brought into disrepute by the public knowing that the trainee remained in a clinical environment or;
that a trainee’s conduct was deemed to be disruptive to the delivery of clinical care or clinical teaching  in a partner, usually NHS, organisation.
Concerns may be such that trainees can be suspended from their course with immediate effect by the Dean or by the head of studies. If this decision is based on a concern related to discipline or health and safety then appropriate procedures as set out within the Code of Discipline for Students and the Quality Manual should be followed.
If trainees are allowed to return from suspension, they will be expected to comply with any conditions decided by the School or imposed as part of the outcome of any other procedure.
1.5.
A trainee will not be allowed to graduate from either University if they are subject to a fitness to practise investigation or hearing which has not been completed.
2.  Investigations
2.1.
On receipt of a disclosure which gives rise to a fitness to practise concern, the relevant Co-director shall promptly, and normally within 5 working days, arrange for the matter to be investigated and shall notify the trainee of the following:
The basis of the concerns and any allegations against him/her.
The identity of the investigating officer.
Any limitations or conditions placed upon the continuance of studies or supervised practice during the period of the investigation.
2.2.
The trainee can register an objection to the appointment of the investigating officer on the basis of a lack of impartiality. Such an objection needs to the relevant Co-director within 5 working days. Examples would include where the investigating officer has initially raised the concern e.g. probity issues, or where the investigating officer has had interaction with the trainee on an unrelated contentious issue. If this objection is upheld a new investigating officer should be appointed.
2.3.
The investigating officer may request members of staff connected with the case to provide written comments on the trainee’s conduct and/or health, explaining why there is concern as to fitness to practise. Factual information about the trainee’s professional progress on the course and any other relevant documentation should also be provided.
2.4.
The investigating officer shall interview relevant individuals including the trainee himself/herself. At such interviews the investigating officer shall be accompanied by an assistant who shall prepare a written note of the interview.
2.5.
The investigating officer should ensure that the trainee is advised of appropriate pastoral support mechanisms within their University and Trainees’ Union.
2.6.
The trainee is entitled to have a person of their choosing attend the interview with them in order to support them at the meeting. The trainee should confirm the name and status of the person accompanying them in writing to the Investigating Officer in advance of the interview. The person supporting the trainee is not attending the interview as an advocate or character witness.
2.7.
The trainee may be required to attend their employer’s Occupational Health Service in order that advice on his or her fitness to practise on medical grounds may be sought. In cases where there is evidence of recurring health problems or with addictive behaviours, Occupational health referral is required.
2.8.
Save in exceptional circumstances, the investigating officer shall, no later than 15 working days after the referral by the Co-directors, make a written report of the results of the investigation to the Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences at The University of Nottingham detailing all evidence obtained. From this point onwards all further stages of the Fitness to Practise Procedure are handled by the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences at The University of Nottingham.
3   Referral to Fitness to Practise Committee
3.1
Promptly on receipt of the report from the investigating officer, and in any event within 5 working days, the Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences shall consult the Dean of the Faculty who will determine, in the light of the seriousness of the matter and the strength of the evidence, whether the case should be referred to the Fitness to Practise Committee.
3.2
The Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences will notify the trainee in writing of the following.
The outcome of the investigation and the Dean’s decision.
Whether the matter is to be referred to the Fitness to Practise Committee together with full details of the procedures to be adopted.
The imposition of any conditions/limitations placed on the trainee’s studies.
3.3
In the event that the Fitness to Practise Committee is to be convened, the Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences will notify the trainee of the identity of the Committee members and the date of the proposed meeting of the Committee and make available to him/her, all of the evidence detailed in the investigating officer’s report.
3.4
The trainee shall be allowed at least 15 working days in which to prepare his/her case. All information on which the trainee intends to rely must be received by the FTP Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, who will then distribute this information to the members of the Fitness to Practise Committee and the Investigating Officer, at least 5 working days before the date set for the meeting of the Committee.
3.5
In exceptional circumstances the Dean may determine that a warning should be issued to the trainee without a Fitness to Practise Committee hearing as the means of disposal of the FTP procedure, according to section 7 (below). The usual example of when this would be considered is when a criminal conviction or caution has been admitted. This disposal shall only be considered when the following four conditions are met
With the agreement of the trainee, confirmed in writing to the FTP Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine & Health Sciences
When the trainee fully admits to the allegation upon which a concern has been based. This admission would be part of the evidence provided by the investigating officer.
The trainee demonstrates insight into the nature of the concern and expresses remorse as specified in the evidence provided by the investigating officer
When the Dean is satisfied that the nature of the concern does not raise the possibility of another outcome beyond a warning as specified in section 7 (below)
4   Attendance at the Meeting
4.1
The trainee will be required to attend the meeting in person.  If the trainee fails to attend without reasonable explanation, the Committee will consider the case in the trainee’s absence. The Chair will have discretion as to what constitutes a ‘reasonable explanation’.
4.2
The University’s case will be presented by the investigating officer or his or her nominee.
4.3
At the discretion of the Chair, the Committee may also call upon other persons (whether or not a current member of the University) to provide advice on specific aspects of the case in writing or in person.
4.4
The trainee is entitled to have a person of their choosing attend the hearing with them (referred to here as "the friend"), and is permitted to have the person of their choosing speak on their behalf. The trainee should confirm the name and status of the person accompanying them in writing to the Secretary no less than four working days before the hearing.
5  Composition of the Committee
5.1
The Committee will comprise as a minimum the Chair (a senior member of the academic staff from outside the professional discipline of the trainee) and two members. At least one member should be a clinically active member of the same professional discipline as the trainee. The Committee will be serviced by a Secretary who is not a member but will be present throughout the proceedings.
5.2
Anyone who is asked to be a member of the Committee, who has been personally involved in the trainee's case at any prior stage needs to inform the Secretary to the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences of this. This person will then not be able to be a member of the Committee and another member will need to be appointed.
6  Procedure for the conduct of the meeting
This section is a guide to the conduct of the meeting itself. The Chair has discretion to vary these arrangements as she/he thinks fit.
6.1
Prior to the meeting the Secretary to the Committee will ensure the trainee has copies of all documents circulated to members of the Committee and is aware of the procedures to be followed.
6.2
The Chair will ask if any member has been personally involved in the trainee's case at any prior stage and, if so, will ask them to withdraw from the meeting.
6.3
The trainee, the friend (if attending) and staff will then join the Committee.
6.4
The Chair will introduce by name and explain the functions of the members of the Committee, the staff, and any others present.
6.5
The Chair will explain the powers of the Committee, as set out in section7.
6.6
The Chair will invite the investigating officer (or nominee) to make an opening statement and then invite the Committee to ask questions. Other staff attending will be offered the same opportunity to make a statement and may be asked questions.
6.7
The Chair will invite the trainee or the friend to make a statement. The Chair will explain that the Committee will wish to hear directly from the trainee in their own words.
6.8
Members of the Committee will be invited to question the trainee.
6.9
The Chair will invite any other person(s) called upon by the Chair to attend the meeting (as referred to in section 4.3), to make a brief statement, and will then invite the Committee to ask questions.
6.10
At each stage the Chair has discretion to allow reciprocal questioning by the various parties.
6.11
Once the Chair is satisfied that the Committee has completed their questioning and the trainee and staff have had a full opportunity to convey information to the Committee, both the trainee and members of staff will withdraw.
6.12
The Committee will then discuss the case.
6.13
If for any reason the Committee requires further clarification of any aspect of the case from either the trainee or staff members they must be all invited back into the meeting while the questioning takes place. When the Chair so determines they will then leave the meeting again.
6.14
The Committee will make its decision on the basis of the balance of probabilities and shall be taken by a simple majority of the members present and voting. The Chair shall have a casting vote in the event of a tie.
6.15
The decision, and any findings of fact, will be conveyed to the trainee and the other parties as soon as possible, and will in any event be conveyed to the trainee in writing within two working days of the decision being reached.
7  Powers of the Fitness to Practise Committee
7.1
The Committee, following consideration of the case, has the power to:
permit the trainee to continue with the course with no warning or sanction;
warn the trainee that there is evidence of misconduct but the trainee’s fitness to practise is not impaired to a point requiring any of the sanctions listed below;
impose a sanction. Beginning with the least severe, the sanctions are:
- undertakings
- conditions
- suspension from the course
- exclusion from the course
(Guidance on the imposition of these sanctions is offered in the GMC document
Medical trainees: professional behaviour and fitness to practise
(2007) and the RPSGB (Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain) document
Guidance on trainee fitness to practise procedures in schools of pharmacy
(2009)).
7.2
Where a trainee’s studies are terminated, assistance will be given to the trainee to transfer to an alternative course of study which does not provide a license to practise, if this is considered appropriate.
7.3
Where it proves impossible to continue to offer the course because the trainee is deemed incapable on non-academic grounds (such as health) of completing it and will not therefore be fit to practise, every effort will be made to offer an appropriate alternative course of study.
8  Appeals
8.1
The trainee may appeal to the University’s Academic Appeals Committee against any warning or sanction imposed by the Fitness to Practise Committee.
8.2
The policy and procedure for an appeal are set out in the Quality Manual.
9  Confidentiality
The personal data of trainees will be processed by the University in compliance with the Data Protection Act. However, it may be necessary to pass personal information to other organisations such as the NHS, professional accrediting bodies or other institutes of higher education where there is a real issue about a trainee's fitness to practise and where this represents a risk to patients or members of the public.
Annex D - Trainee complaints procedure
The investigation and determination of complaints shall follow the Complaints Procedures of the University directly responsible for the matters or persons or events complained of, and which has the authority to provide remedies where the complaints are upheld.
Where a complaint contains substantive elements relating to both universities, investigation and determination shall follow the Complaints Procedures of the trainee’s degree-awarding university, and the other university shall provide full co-operation.
These regulations can be accessed via:
University of Lincoln - Student Complaints
Concerns, complaints and appeals
Annex E - Academic offences
The Academic Offences Policy of the trainee’s degree-awarding university shall apply to this programme. These regulations can be accessed via:
University of Lincoln - Academic Offences
Policy on academic misconduct
Annex F - Academic appeals
The Academic Appeals Policy of the trainee’s degree-awarding university shall apply to this programme. These regulations can be accessed via:
University of Lincoln - Academic Reviews and Appeals
Policy on academic appeals
Annex G - Conduct and Discipline other than concerns falling under the
Fitness to Practise procedure
These regulations can be accessed via:
University of Lincoln -Student Conduct and Discipline
Student Services - Regulations
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/research-degree-progs/pgr-supregs-dclinpsy-presept17.aspx
Header: Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) before September 2017
Intro: This page contains information on the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) before September 2017. Its content is only relevant to students who commenced their studies before that date.
Content:
Supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) before September 2017 - The University of NottinghamSupplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) before September 2017
This page contains information on the supplementary regulations for the Degree of Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) before September 2017. Its content is only relevant to students who commenced their studies before that date.Overview
The regulations for the Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) are those which govern the University of Nottingham (UoN) PhD available at:
Research programme regulations
University of Lincoln - Research Degrees Regulations for MA and MSc by Research MPhil and PhD 2014-15
except where the following modify or supplement them.
Admissions requirements
1.1
A candidate for the Doctor of Clinical Psychology (DClinPsy) degree must
(a)
be a graduate of this or any other approved university holding a Bachelors degree in Psychology or an equivalent subject recognised by the British Psychological Society as conferring Graduate Basis for Chartership. This will normally be a first or upper second class honours but candidates with a lower second-class honours degree or other equivalent qualification may be considered if they have a postgraduate degree at Masters level or higher. The only entry to the programme is at the beginning of Year 1. There is no provision for advanced entry based on ROL or ROEL.
(b)
Meet the essential characteristics of the NHS person specification for a Clinical Psychologist in Training and course specification.
(c)
Have the personal and intellectual resources to pursue a challenging and demanding research oriented programme.
(d)
Have previous supervised practical experience relevant to clinical training.
(e)
The programme covers a wide geographical area and teaching is provided at both the University of Nottingham (UoN) and the University of Lincoln (UoL) (the universities).  It is therefore a requirement that students are able to make their own personal arrangements to travel to and from the universities and their respective work placements. Students should expect to have to travel for at least 3 hours a day (e.g. between universities and from base to placement).
(f)
Candidates will be subject to an interview process and must complete Disclosure and Barring Scheme checks and health checks for acceptability as an NHS employee.
(g)
Candidates whose first language is not English and who have not previously studied in Higher Education in English, must as a minimum, have one of the following:
A British Council IELTS overall minimum score of 7.5 with no element below 7.0, achieved no more than 2 years prior to admission.
Pearson Test of English Academic 73 (minimum 67).
CELE pre-sessional course final assessment of “Pass with High Distinction”
Course of study
2.1
A candidate for the degree of DClinPsy must have pursued at one of the universities a full-time course of study comprising a taught component, clinical placements and one research project. Completion of the DClinPsy programme requires a minimum of 3 years of full-time supervised study.
2.2
The universities’  Regulations for Taught Masters Degrees, Postgraduate Diploma and Postgraduate Certificate courses shall apply with regard to satisfactory progression on the taught element of the degree.  All modules on the programme are compulsory and non-compensatable. The Regulations may be accessed at:
University of Lincoln - Taught Postgraduate Regulations 2014-15
Regulations for students admitted from September 2016 and before September 2017
2.3
Students on the DClinPsy programme are called ‘trainees’. Each trainee on the programme is registered at both the University of Lincoln and the University of Nottingham, and on successful completion shall be awarded the degree by one or other of the universities.
2.4
The University of Nottingham’s Fitness to Practise procedures, as set out at Annex B, shall apply to all trainees.  Annex C - G specify which of the two universities’ regulations shall be followed in respect of Extenuating Circumstances; Student Complaints; Academic Offences (UoL)/Misconduct (UoN); Academic Appeals; and Student Discipline.
Programme structure
3.1
Structure of Awards
The standard modules in the DClinPsy award are multiples of 5 credit points, as appropriate to the level of study, with 1 credit point equating to 10 notional learning hours. The modules will be at Master (M) or Doctoral (D) level according to Table 1 below:
Table 1 - DClinPsy credit structure
Award
Tariff (level)
Notional Learning Hours
The Doctorate in Clinical Psychology
540 (M/D)
5,400
Masters Degree in Applied Psychology (available as an exit award only)
180 (M/D) These credits contribute towards the credits for the award of the doctorate
1,800
3.2
The programme shall be structured according to the following principles:
140 credits of taught provision
120 credits of placement - taught provision
150 credits of placement - research provision resulting in production of Placement Research Portfolio  (maximum 15,000 words plus appendices, etc)
130 credits of research project provision resulting in production of Research Project Portfolio (maximum 45,000 words plus appendices, etc)
It shall have 260 credits (8 modules) designated as taught and 280 credits (6 modules) designated as research.
It shall have 100 credits at M level; the remaining 440 credits being at D level.
A description of the programme structure is at Annex A.
Assessment
4.1
Compensation cannot be offered for failure of any component within a module.
4.2
All placement assessments are graded on a pass or fail basis.
4.3
Where no formal extension has been agreed, a late submission will be deemed a failed submission.
4.4
All placements are assessed by the trainee’s supervisor, Clinical Tutor and, where appropriate, Co-Director (Clinical Practice). Supervisor assessments for taught placements are regarded as recommendations to the Programme Directors with the final decision to pass or fail the placement made by the Board of Examiners.
4.5
Supervisor assessments for the research placements are regarded as recommendations for consideration as part of the research annual review process (UoN) or to the College Research Degrees Board (UoL); the research placements are also examined by the research examiners at viva voce alongside the final Research Project who then makes a recommendation to the final Board of Examiners as part of the final examination process for the degree.
Reassessment opportunities
5.1
Trainees who have failed modules shall be offered one opportunity to be reassessed with the following exceptions:
5.1.1
Taught modules assessed by a Practice Based Learning Assessment (PBL):
Only one PBL module may be reassessed.  If a trainee fails one component or more of a second PBL module assessed by a PBL assessment, no further reassessment will be allowed and the trainee will not be permitted to continue on the programme.
5.1.2
Placement modules:
Placements are assessed by a combination of case studies (written and oral) and clinical assessments.  Trainees will be permitted one opportunity to resit one placement module. If a trainee fails one component or more of a second placement module, no further reassessment will be permitted and the trainee will not be permitted to continue on the programme.
5.1.2.1
Trainees who require funding to re-sit a placement failed by the clinical assessment will need the agreement of NHS Commissioners to continue funding an extension of the trainee’s employment and studies during the course of the three-year programme (see below).
5.1.2.2
Where a trainee requires an extension of the training contract, the University may be asked to confirm that the trainee is expected to satisfactorily complete and  is suitable to work as a registered Clinical Psychologist, adhering to the expectations of NHS employment practice.
Board of examiners
6.1
The Board of Examiners shall have responsibility for assessment in respect to the taught elements of the programme (see programme structure above) which will feed into the considerations of the College Research Degrees Board (UoL)/Research annual review panel (UoN) who shall have responsibility for assessment of the research elements of the programme and confirming progression.
6.2
Determination of a student’s entitlement to conferment of the final award shall be the responsibility of the Board of Examiners.
6.3
All meetings of the Board of Examiners are deemed to be held jointly between the universities and no restrictions on the exchange of information shall apply.
6.4
In recognition of the link between academic progression and employment status the programme will communicate directly with trainees who are in danger of programme failure and thereby of losing their employment.
Progression
7.1 Taught Components
7.1.1
In order to progress through subsequent years trainees shall have passed all the required elements of the taught modules at each stage of the programme.
7.1.2
Research Components (see programme structure above).
7.1.3
Each candidate will have at least two academic supervisors for the Research Modules that comprise the Research Project Portfolio.
7.1.4
Progress records shall be confirmed by the College Research Degrees Board at UoL, or the annual review panel at UoN, on at least an annual basis.  The Progress Board/panel shall take account of internal marking of taught and research modules and performance on placement (supervisor report and case studies) to satisfy itself of satisfactory progress.
7.1.5
Upon receipt of the progress record, the trainee transcript and any additional information that it has required, the Research Degrees Board/annual review panel shall either:
A)
confirm that the enrolment of the trainee shall continue or
B)
confirm that the enrolment of the trainee shall continue and the student must be reassessed in failed elements of the annual review
C)
confirm that the trainee’s course of studies be terminated and the award of the MSc in Applied Psychology be considered or
D)
recommend that the trainee’s course of studies be terminated and no award  be made
Submission of research project, portfolio and examination
8.1
The candidate shall submit a Research Project Portfolio (Volume 1) for examination, which shall comprise of a draft journal paper, an extended paper (including an updated literature review and extended methods, analysis, results and discussion sections), a critical reflection and a poster.
8.2
The Research Project Portfolio shall be of a standard to indicate the creation and interpretation of new knowledge through original research, which extends the forefront of the discipline.
8.3
The work reported shall be of a quality to satisfy peer review and merit publication in a scientific journal. Volume 2 (comprising placement case studies and service related research) must also be submitted before the Research Project Portfolio can be sent for examination.
8.4
Both Volume 1 and Volume 2 must be submitted before the student is recommended for examination.
Outcomes of portfolio examination
9.1
The Examiners may recommend the following outcomes of examination for candidates:
Pass the research component of the degree
Pass the research component of the degree subject to minor corrections within one month
Pass the research component of the degree subject to minor amendments to be completed within three months
Require the candidate to attend for a second viva voce examination and resubmit the same portfolio (which may be subject to minor amendments to be completed within three months), or Resubmit the portfolio in a revised form within twelve months with/without attending a second viva voce examination
Fail the research component of the degree and no further opportunity for resubmission
Doctoral award
10.1
The degree of DClinPsy will be conferred on candidates who
a)
have successfully completed the taught component of the programme and
b)
have satisfied the Examiners as to the standard of the Research Project Portfolio and
c)
have achieved all standards of proficiency required by the HCPC and core competencies required by the BPS and
d)
have supplied all raw data for the research portfolio to the school administrators and
e)
have obtained confirmation from the primary research supervisor that they have prepared a submission ready journal paper and
f)
are not subject to any Fitness to Practise Proceedings.
10.2
The DClinPsy degree is awarded as a simple Pass, without classification or distinction/merit categories.
Award of Masters in Applied Psychology
11.1
A candidate for the degree of DClinPsy who achieves less than 540 but 180 or more credits may be eligible for the award of Master of Science Degree in Applied Psychology. To be awarded this MSc trainees must have successfully completed a total of 180 Level (M, D) credits with at least 60 credits from research modules.
11.2
There is no provision for the award of a Postgraduate Certificate or Postgraduate Diploma.
If you have any problems or queries relating to this page, please contact:
UNUK students
Student Services
UNNC students
Academic-Service-Office@nottingham.edu.cn
UNM students
student_registry@nottingham.edu.my
Staff
Quality-Manual-Enquiries@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
06 April 2022||

================================================================================

