URL: https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/qualitymanual/academic-regulations/ug-regs-sep1920.aspx
Header: Regulations from September 2019 to September 2020
Intro: This page contains the University's study regulations for all undergraduate students who entered their qualifying year or Part I from September 2019 and before September 2020. Its content is applicable to undergraduate students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.
Content:
Regulations from September 2019 to September 2020 - The University of NottinghamRegulations from September 2019 to September 2020
This page contains the University's study regulations for all undergraduate students who entered their qualifying year or Part I from September 2019 and before September 2020. Its content is applicable to undergraduate students across all of the UK, China and Malaysia campuses.Overview
Includes:
supplementary and fitness to practice regulations; assessment regulations; extenuating circumstances; contact details
These regulations take effect from 2019/20. Students who entered Qualifying year or Part I before September 2019 are subject to former regulations.
For more information about the former regulations, please consult the following section:
Undergraduate study regulations
Supplementary and Fitness to practise Regulations
In addition to the study regulations which are stated on this page, students will be subject to the supplementary regulations for their individual courses, which can be found at:
Curriculum Catalogue
In addition, some programmes will be subject to Fitness to Practise regulations, details of which are included in relevant course handbooks.
Assessment Regulations
Assessment regulations can be found on the following page:
Assessment and marking policies
Extenuating circumstances
Guidance on managing students with extenuating circumstances can be found on the following:
Extenuating circumstances
Contact details
Students seeking advice on these regulations should contact their School/Department.
Schools can obtain guidance on these regulations by emailing:
ug-regulations@nottingham.ac.uk
.
Approved courses of study
Includes:
qualification requirements; module selection; credit limits
1.
To qualify for an award a student must:
(a)
Pursue an approved course of study as prescribed by a programme specification.
(b)
Pass the assessments specified in these Regulations and in the relevant programme specification.
(c)
Successfully complete any additional components that are required as specified in the relevant programme specification.
2.
Students must select their modules in accordance with the relevant programme specification and the University’s Qualifications Framework. This selection should be undertaken in consultation with their academic tutors and shall be subject to the approval of their School. A School offering a module has the right to refuse admission to that module.
For more information about the University's Qualification Framework, please consult the following:
University of Nottingham Qualifications Framework
3.
In making their selection of modules, students must satisfy any prerequisites, corequisites or other requirements set out in the relevant module or programme specification.
4.
Students may not select modules worth more than 70 credits in any one semester.
Award of credit
Includes:
pass mark; components; failure to pass; Recognition of Other Learning (ROL)
5.
The pass mark for a module is 40%. In order to pass a module and be awarded the credit for that module a student must also satisfy any requirements as specified in paragraph 6.
6.
The module specification states how the components of the module will be combined to form a module mark and whether a particular mark must be gained in individual components of the module in order for the module as a whole to be passed.
7.
A student who fails to pass a module may nevertheless be awarded the credit for that module in the circumstances set out in Regulations 10 and 11 (within the Completion of a stage section).
8.
Credit may also be awarded under the University’s policy on Recognition of Other Learning (ROL)(formerly known as Accreditation of Prior Learning (APL)). For more information, please consult the following:
Recognition of Other Learning
Completion of a stage
Includes:
failure of one or more modules; progression requirements
9.
A student who passes all the modules in a given stage of their course (as defined in the University’s Qualifications Framework) will complete that stage and be awarded the total credit for that stage. A student who completes the requirements for a Foundation Certificate or qualifies for an Honours level or Integrated Masters degree through application of the relevant degree classification model and weightings (see Regulations 22 and 23 of the Classification section) will automatically complete the final stage of their course and be awarded the total credit for that stage, unless the relevant programme specification contains additional requirements for completion of the final stage. For more information about the University's Qualifications Framework, please consult the following page:
Qualification types and structures
10.
A student who fails one or more modules will still complete that stage (subject to Regulation 11 below), and so be awarded the total credit for that stage provided that they have:
(a)
Passed modules worth at least 80 credits and have a weighted average for the stage of at least 40% with no module marks of less than 30%
or
(b)
Passed modules worth at least 100 credits and have a weighted average for the stage of at least 50%
or
(c)
Passed modules worth at least 90 credits, have marks of 30% or more in modules worth at least 110 credits, and have a weighted average for the stage of at least 45%
.
11.
Regulation 10 does not apply to the final stage of any degree programme nor to any module which is listed in the relevant programme specification as not compensatable. A student who fails a non-compensatable module will not complete that stage without successfully undertaking re-assessment in that module.
12.
Students registered on the following types of programmes may be required by the relevant programme specification to attain higher marks in individual specified modules and/or higher average marks than indicated in paragraphs 9 and 10 above.
(i)
An Integrated Masters programme
(ii)
Certain Honours programmes with a compulsory period away from the University.
Students in categories (i) and (ii) above who fail to satisfy the requirements of such a programme but who nonetheless satisfy the criteria as stated in Regulations 9 or 10 will be eligible to transfer to an alternative course, where one exists, as stated in the Supplementary Regulations.
(iii)
The Foundation Stage of any programme
Students in category (iii) above who fail to meet the specified requirement may be unable to progress but subject to satisfying Regulation 9 above will be awarded the Foundation Certificate.
Reassessment
Includes:
student rights; potential scenarios; progression requirements and options
13.
A student who, at the first attempt, has not satisfactorily completed a stage other than the final stage under Regulations 9-11 (of the Completion of a stage section above) has a right to one re-assessment in each failed module where this might enable a student to satisfy progression requirements. The form of the re-assessment will be the same as for the first attempt unless stated otherwise in the module specification. Reassessment marks are considered only in decisions relating to progression to the next stage hence reassessments in the final stage of any programme are not relevant or allowed except in the case of reassessment for a Pass or Ordinary degree or where a student has failed a non-compensatable module and is required to take a reassessment in order to gain the credits and complete the stage.
14.
Where a student has pass marks in one or more components of the module, but has failed the module overall, the School delivering the module may limit the re-assessment to the components which have been failed. The re-assessment mark for the module will then be a combination (on the same basis as in Regulation 6 of the Award of credit section above) of the marks from the components passed first time and the components which have been re-assessed.
15.
All re-assessments must be undertaken before the student progresses to the next stage (but see Regulation 20 below). All reassessments will take place in August/September immediately following the first assessment (but see Regulations 16 and 20 below), except:
Where a School agrees to a written request from the student to take the reassessment at a later date (such requests must be made before the August/September reassessment period);
Where a School arranges an earlier reassessment;
Where this is not possible owing to external constraints;
Where different arrangements are made for distance learning or part-time students.
Circumstances where an exemption to Regulation 20 apply when the reassessment will normally take place at the next available scheduled opportunity in the academic year.
16.
A student may request to be allowed to repeat their enrolment in failed or incomplete modules (which will include attendance at all scheduled classes and submission of all coursework) before taking the reassessment or initial assessments. Requests should be submitted to the student’s School who must consult other relevant Schools, and, where the student is on a Tier 4 visa, the Visa and Immigration team, when making the decision. A School should (if possible) agree to such a request, but there may be circumstances where this is not possible (e.g. where the module is no longer running or where there are Tier 4 limitations on immigration sponsorship). If a student opts to take any one reassessment with attendance, they must then take all due reassessments with attendance (except for modules where a repeat enrolment is not available).
A module specification may stipulate that in order for a student to be reassessed in that module, the student must repeat their enrolment. In such circumstances, the student will not be compelled to take all reassessments in attendance and may take all other reassessments either in August/September or during the session when they are attending for the purpose of the module(s) that require attendance.
17.
Students may not be re-assessed in modules they have already passed.
18.
A student who, after re-assessment, has not completed the stage under Regulations 9-11 (of the Completion of a stage section above) will not be permitted to progress further on that course and will have no further re-assessment opportunities, except in the circumstances set out in Regulation 19 below.
19.
A student who, after re-assessment, has not completed the stage under Regulations 9-11 (of the Completion of a stage section above) but:
(a)
has passed at least 80 credits of modules in the stage, and
(b)
has an average of at least 40% across all modules in the stage will be permitted one further re-assessment in the failed modules at the next available opportunity.
If, after this one further re-assessment, the student has still not completed the stage under Regulations 9-11 (of the Completion of a stage section above), the student will not be permitted to progress further on the course and will have no further re-assessment opportunities.
20.
Where a student is permitted to be reassessed under Regulation 13, 16 or 19, and has failed in modules worth no more than 20 credits, they may choose to proceed to the next stage of their programme but cannot be regarded as having completed that stage until the previous stage has been successfully completed.
There may be circumstances in which a student is unable to proceed carrying credits, for example:
2+2 programme students coming from China and Malaysia - where the Home Office would not issue a visa unless the student has progressed
Cases where it is essential for a student to have passed (as opposed to have taken) a pre-requisite module before starting the next part of their programme
Progression from a Foundation programme to an Honours degree
In those circumstances, Schools are required to have an approved Exemption from the regulation and to ensure that students are made aware of this exemption in the relevant Programme Specification. Students will not be permitted to carry 20 credits of fail and will need to have successfully passed at resit before progressing further on their programme.
Awards
Includes:
conditions of receipt; University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM)
21.
A student will only receive an award if they have successfully completed each necessary stage of the course leading to that award. Notwithstanding this provision, a student who has successfully completed the Qualifying and Part I stages of an Honours course and does not proceed will be awarded an Undergraduate Diploma. Equally, a student who has successfully completed the Qualifying Stage of an Honours course and does not proceed will be awarded an Undergraduate Certificate.
* University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM)
Owing to the requirements of the Malaysia Qualifications Agency (MQA), the option to award an Undergraduate Diploma or Undergraduate Certificate to students who do not proceed at University of Nottingham Malaysia (UNM) is not available.
Classification
Includes:
table of degree classifications and abbreviations; marks contribution; borderline cases;  extenuating circumstances
22.
The classifications and abbreviations for Honours degrees and Integrated Masters degrees are:
Table of degree classifications and abbreviations
Classification
Abbreviation
First Class
I
Second Class, Division One
II-1
Second Class, Division Two
II-2
Third Class
III
The degree classification model set out in the Quality Manual specifies the final mark ranges which apply to each class and how these are calculated and make provision for a student successfully completing an Honours degree course after reassessment to receive a Pass degree without an Honours classification. Programme Specifications state is used for each course.
For more information about degree classification, please consult the following section:
Degree classification
23.
Ordinary degrees, Graduate Diplomas, Graduate Certificates, Undergraduate Diplomas, Undergraduate Certificates, and Foundation Certificates may be awarded with Merit or Distinction. The mark ranges which apply for these awards may be found here:
Assessment and marking policies
24.
Marks awarded for modules in the foundation or qualifying stage do not contribute to the final mark calculation except in the case of Foundation Certificates and Undergraduate Certificates. Marks awarded on reassessment do not contribute to the final mark calculation in the case of Honours and Integrated Masters degrees and for the purpose of awarding Merits and Distinctions in Regulation 23 above.
25.
The stage marks will be combined to calculate the final mark according to weightings which are given in the Programme Specification. The permitted weightings are defined on the following page:
Programme specification guidance
26.
Normally the degree classification awarded is determined entirely by the final average mark (weighted by credits and year of study as defined in the programme specifications) according to the model in the Degree Classification section of the Quality Manual. There are, however, two situations in which further considerations come into play.
(a)
Where the final mark falls within a borderline (as defined in the Degree Classification section of the Quality Manual). In such a case the Examiners will apply the University's standardised algorithm to determine whether the classification may be raised to the next higher classification. In considering the fraction of credits at the higher level, all modules are to be counted even those that have been excluded from the calculation of the final average under 26(b).
(b)
Where the student has approved extenuating circumstances claims satisfying each of the following. The claims
i)
Are for modules attracting no more than 20 credits
ii)
Are in the final stage/year for which a further attempt at the assessment has not been possible by the time of the Examination Board’s meeting.
In this situation, marks from those modules only may be excluded from the calculation of the final average provided that:
i)
Marks from all such affected modules are discounted;
ii)
All non-compensatable modules have been passed;
iii)
The Extenuating Circumstances panel can clearly demonstrate that the final mark after the exclusion is more representative of the student’s normal performance (normally by showing that the excluded module marks are significantly anomalous);
For more information about degree classification, please consult the following section:
Degree classification
Students may decline the application of regulation 26(b) and opt to undertake a further attempt at the affected assessments, but will not graduate until they have completed those reassessments.
All instances in which such exclusions are applied should be communicated to Student Services Development (Academic Processes) for report to Quality and Standards Committee (QSC). Reports should be submitted at the same time as the main Examination Board recommendations in June/July (Undergraduate programmes).
Please send your communications to:
SS-qsc-cases@exmail.nottingham.ac.uk
When a student has experienced circumstances affecting their ability to study/take assessments in their final year of study, Examination Boards may recommend that a case be made to QSC to revisit performance in earlier years for the purposes of recommending a degree classification outside regulations. This recommendation should only be used in exceptional circumstances for cases where there is no prospect of the student undertaking first attempts within a reasonable period of time, for example, in the case of chronic or terminal illness of the student or the dependent of a student.
From September 2020 all students are subject to Regulation 26(b) from the 2020/21 regulations, which can be found here:
Regulations from September 2020
27.
There is no discretion to lower the classification below that indicated by the final mark.
28.
Any of the above regulations may be varied as stated in the relevant programme specification e.g. if there is a specific stated stricter requirement by a professional body accrediting the programme, or an exception has been formally approved. If such a variation is applied and results in the termination of a student's registration on that programme, the student must be offered the opportunity to transfer to a non-accredited programme providing that they satisfy the above regulations. Notwithstanding the above, where no suitable non-accredited programme can exist or where local government requirements prohibit the award of a different qualification from that which the student was studying, students will receive the relevant non-accredited qualification equivalent to the number of credits they have already accrued unless local requirements prohibit fallback awards.  Where this is the case it must be stated in the relevant programme specification.
Guidance and additional links
Includes:
Student Services; flow chart of progression, compensation and reassessment; Regulations for students who do not meet Honours requirements
Students seeking advice on these regulations should contact Student Services. For more information, please consult the following:
Student Services
Please also see the flow chart of progression, compensation and reassessment for undergraduate honours courses, and the guidance for Schools.
Flow chart of progression, compensation and reassessment for undergraduate honours courses
Regulations for students who do not meet Honours requirements from September 2015
If you have a problem or query relating to these regulations, please email:
ug-regulations@nottingham.ac.uk
This content was last modified on
04 March 2025||